Aaliyah  One in a Million (Aaliyah album)  One in a Million is the second studio album by American R&amp;B singer Aaliyah, released by Blackground Records and Atlantic Records on August 27, 1996. Selling over two million copies in the United States within a few months, the album was notable for being Aaliyah's breakout album and a major milestone in the careers of songwriter/producer Missy Elliott and Tim Timbaland Mosley. Elliott and Mosley wrote and produced the bulk of the album. Other producers included Rodney Jerkins, Jermaine Dupri, and Kay Gee. The album was executive produced by Barry Hankerson and Jomo Hankerson. It features all of the hit singles, If Your Girl Only Knew, One in a Million, Got to Give It Up, 4 Page Letter, Hot Like Fire, and The One I Gave My Heart To. The album was certified 2x Platinum in June 16, 1997. The album is currently out of print in the United States, however, copies of the 2006 reissues (which was released in Germany), can possibly be found in some stores as an import, or can easily be imported upon request.
Aaliyah  Aaliyah (album)  Aaliyah (stylized as ΛΛLIYΛH) is the self-titled third and final studio album by American R&amp;B singer Aaliyah, released by Blackground and Virgin Records on July 17, 2001 in the United States. The eponymous album is sometimes called The Red Album, or The Red Pill in reference to The Matrix. The working title was Animus. It was primarily produced by Keybeats, with additional production by Timbaland, Bud'da, Jeffrey J-Dub Walker and Static Major, and lyrics by Static Major and Missy Elliott. It was also nominated for a 2002 Grammy Award for Best R&amp;B Album among many other awards. In April 2001, Aaliyah spoke highly of the album stating It is her version of Control.
Aaliyah  I Care 4 U  I Care 4 U is the fourth studio album and first compilation album by the five times nominated for the Grammy Awards, the American singer Aaliyah, released posthumously by Blackground Records on December 10, 2002, in the United States. Along with her hit singles, a number of shelved tracks were included on the album, including the singles Miss You, Don't Know What to Tell Ya, and Come Over.  The unreleased tracks are generally less edgy than her last album, focusing on R&amp;B rather than rock with the exception of the Nine Inch Nails influenced beat of Erica Kane.
Aaliyah  Age Ain't Nothing but a Number  Age Ain't Nothing but a Number is the debut album by American recording artist Aaliyah, released under Jive and Blackground Records on June 13, 1994, in the United States. After being signed by her uncle Barry Hankerson, Aaliyah was introduced to recording artist and producer R. Kelly. He became her mentor, as well as the lead songwriter and producer of the album. The duo recorded the album at the Chicago Recording Company in Chicago, Illinois. The album featured two hit singles, including the top ten-charting Back &amp; Forth and At Your Best (You Are Love); both singles were certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Two additional singles followed: Age Ain't Nothing But a Number and No One Knows How to Love Me Quite Like You Do. Age Ain't Nothing But a Number received generally favorable reviews from critics. Many noted Aaliyah's vocal ability and praised the lyrical content. Aaliyah was credited for redefining R&amp;B by blending her voice with Kelly's new jack swing. The album peaked at number 18 on the Billboard 200 and sold three million copies in the United States, where it was certified double platinum by the RIAA in October 24, 2001. The album was certified Gold in Canada by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA) and Silver in the United Kingdom by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).
Aaliyah  Ultimate Aaliyah  Ultimate Aaliyah is the second compilation dedicated to late R&amp;B singer Aaliyah. It was released in May 10, 2005 in the UK (as Ultimate Aaliyah), in Europe and in Japan (as The Legacy of Aaliyah), and in the U.S. (as Special Fan Box). The collection includes two compact discs and one DVD video disc. The first compact disc is a greatest hits compilation, including all of Aaliyah's biggest and minor U.S. hits (in their LP
Aaliyah  Where Could He Be  Where Could He Be? is a song performed by late American R&amp;B singer Aaliyah. The song also features Missy Elliott, who performs the spoken intro and Tweet who sings the background as well as the outro. Both Elliott and Tweet provide background vocals throughout the song. The song contains a sample of Lisa Stansfield's All Around the World.
Aaliyah  I Care 4 U (DVD)  I Care 4 U is a compilation DVD by Aaliyah; it features most of her personal favorite and more popular music videos from 1996 to 2001, It was originally released in 2002 as a bonus disk on the I Care 4 U album then again released separately in 2003 only in Germany and other parts of Europe with Miss You as a bonus video. Aaliyah has stated on BET's 106 &amp; Park that Her Favorite Music Videos are One In A Million, Are You That Somebody? and Try Again.
Aaron Carter  Aaron Carter (album)  Aaron Carter is the self-titled debut album of pop singer Aaron Carter, brother of Backstreet Boys member Nick Carter. It was originally released in December 1997 in Europe and re-released the next year with a new song and a remix, as well as being released in the United States
Aaron Carter  Aaron's Party (Come Get It)  Aaron's Party (Come Get It) is American pop singer Aaron Carter's follow-up to his international debut album. This album was released in 2000.
Aaron Carter  Oh Aaron  Oh Aaron is American rising teen pop singer Aaron Carter's third studio album, released in 2001. The album features three collaborations with No Secrets and his older brother, Nick Carter. Although not as successful as his second album
Aaron Carter  Another Earthquake  Another Earthquake! is American teen pop singer Aaron Carter's fourth studio album.
Aaron Carter  Most Requested Hits  Most Requested Hits is American teen pop singer Aaron Carter's first compilation album. The album did not make the Top 50 and has only sold about 50,000 copies to date. The compilation included no tracks from Carter's self-titled debut album, including one of Carter's most successful singles worldwide, Crush on You.
Aaron Carter  Come Get It: The Very Best of Aaron Carter  Come Get It: The Very Best of Aaron Carter is American teen pop singer Aaron Carter's second compilation album.
Aaron Carter  2 Good 2 B True  2 Good 2 B True is American teen pop singer Aaron Carter's third compilation album.
Aaron Carter  Aaron's Party: Live in Concert  This is teen pop star Aaron Carter's first concert DVD.
Aaron Carter  Aaron's Party: The Videos  This stars pop star Aaron Carter in a music video DVD with videos from his recent album, Aaron's Party (Come Get It).
Akon  Trouble (Akon album)  Trouble is the debut album by the Senegalese-American hip hop and R&amp;B singer Akon, released in 2004. The album contains Akon's first worldwide hit single, Lonely. The deluxe edition was released in 2005 and contains a second disc with 10 bonus tracks. The release of Locked Up
Akon  Konvicted  Konvicted is the second album by hip hop and R&amp;B Senegalese-American singer and rapper Akon. It was originally released in November 2006. The album features tracks recorded with Eminem, Snoop Dogg, Styles P (who previously collaborated with Akon on Locked Up) and T-Pain (who later recorded Bartender with Akon). To date, it is Akon's most successful album and was nominated for a Grammy Award .
Akon  Freedom (Akon album)  Freedom is the third studio album by hip hop and R&amp;B Senegalese-American singer and rapper Akon. The album was originally named Acquitted, however Akon changed it due to its negative connotation. It was released as a download on December 1, 2008, and in stores December 2, 2008. Although there are some vulgarities on Freedom, it does not carry the Parental Advisory warning, making it Akon's first album not to do so.
Akon  The Freedom Mixtape  Akon and Konvict Muzik deliver the official “Freedom” Mixtape, to help fans gear up for the release of Akon’s third studio album, “Freedom”, released December 2, 2008.
Akon  Akonic  Akonic is the upcoming, fourth studio album from American singer/songwriter, Akon. The album is due for release on November 29, 2010. The album was originally announced in 2008, with a proposed release in the first quarter of 2010. However, after recording work was not completed in time, the album's release date was pushed back. It was assumed that the album would not be released until 2011, however, on September 17, the album was made available to pre-order on the HMV website with a release date of November 23, 2010. The name of the album was debated for some time - with working titles such as Stadium and Stadium Music. However, upon the album being previewed in September 2010, it was revealed the title would actually be Akonic. Between September 17 and September 29, the HMV website also listed the title of Akonic. However, on September 30, the title was changed to Stadium. It is currently unconfirmed which of the names will be used for the album. Two tracks from the album - Nosy Neighbour and Party Animal - were leaked onto the internet in 2009. Both tracks were produced by David Guetta. October 13 a song titled Give it to em feat Rick Ross was leaked, it is presumed to be off the album. It was rumoured that Nosy Neighbour would be the album's lead single, however, it is has since been confirmed that the album's lead single would, in fact, be Angel. Angel was released on September 27, 2010 in the United States, with a UK release expected in November.
Amaia Montero  Amaia Montero (album)  Amaia Montero is the debut solo album by Spanish singer Amaia Montero, after an eleven-year music career as the frontwoman for La Oreja de Van Gogh. It was released in Spain on 18 November 2008 by Sony BMG. Quiero Ser was the first single released from the album. According to Promusicae Amaia Montero was the Ninth biggest selling album of 2008 in Spain, for surpassing sales of 81,000 in less than 2 months (six weeks).
Ana Stanić  Sudar  Sudar is a 2008 album by Serbian pop singer Ana Stanić. It was released on March 10, 2008. The album contains 13 songs and one bonus. One of the producers was popular Serbian hip hop singer and producer Sky Wikluh. Ana Stanić promoted her fifth studio album at the roof of The Army Hole in Belgrade, on June 17.
Ana Stanić  U ogledalu  U ogledalu is a 2004 album by Serbian pop singer Ana Stanić. It was released in 2004. The album contains 10 songs. One of the producers was popular Montenegrin pop singer and producer Vlado Georgiev. Her first hit-single off the album titled Pogrešan was published under the label BK Sound, but after a while, Ana's made a transfer into City Records and surprisingly published her album, and rest of the singles from it, under this label.
Ana Stanić  Tri (album)  Tri is a 2002 album by serbian pop singer Ana Stanić. It was released in June 2002. The album contains 10 songs, and 4 remixes. The video for her first hit-single off the album titled 20, 30 godina was filmed in Budapest, though, it was originally planned to be filmed in Thailand. It was released in spring 2002, and became one of her signature songs.
Ana Stanić  Metar iznad asfalta  Metar iznad asfalta is a 1998 debut album by serbian pop singer Ana Stanić. She debuted as a solo artist with a song Molila sam anđele on Mediterranean Festival which was held in Budva. It was later released as her debut and first single off then-upcoming album, and it became very successful in the country, becoming her most notable and signature song to date. The album was released in summer 1998. The album contains 11 songs, and 2 bonus tracks. The videos were shot for all four singles released off the album.
Ana Stanić  Vidim te kad  Vidim te kad is a 1999 album by serbian pop singer Ana Stanić. The album was released in summer 1998. The album contains 14 songs, including one 35 seconds intro and one bonus track (a lead single remix). Three singles were released off the album though, a video was shot for lead single Vidim te kad...  only.
Ana Tijoux  1977 (Ana Tijoux album)  1977 is the fifth studio album by Latin hip hop artist Ana Tijoux, released March 9, 2010 on Nacional Records. 1977 is Tijoux's second solo release and fifth overall album released.
Andrea Bocelli  Sogno  Sogno is a best-selling album released by Andrea Bocelli in 1999. It is his fifth studio album. In 1999, Bocelli was nominated for Best New Artist at the Grammys, which marked the first time a classical artist had been nominated in the category in 38 years. The Prayer, his duet with Celine Dion from the album, won the Golden Globe for Best Song and was nominated for an Academy Award. Sogno entered the upper reaches of the pop album charts around the world, confirming Bocelli's position at the pinnacle of the world of popular music, and giving birth to the phenomenon of Bocellimania. The album sold 2.5 million copies in America, and over 10 million copies worldwide.
Andrea Bocelli  Sacred Arias (Andrea Bocelli album)  Sacred Arias (Arie Sacre), is the sixth studio album by Andrea Bocelli. Released in 1999, the album features music composed in traditional Christian styles. With over 5 million units sold worldwide, it is Bocelli's most commercially successful classical album to date, as well as, the biggest selling classical album by a solo artist of all time.
Andrea Bocelli  Bocelli (album)  Bocelli is the second studio album released by Andrea Bocelli in 1995 on the Polydor GmbH label. This album is the follow-up to his debut album, Il mare calmo della sera. The album outsold Bocelli's aforementioned debut album not only in his native Italy, but it also received multi-platinum status across Europe. In Germany, the album was certified 4x Platinum, with more than 2 million units sold, making it one of the best-selling albums ever in the country. In addition the album sold well over 5 million copies worldwide.
Andrea Bocelli  Sentimento  Sentimento is the ninth studio album released by Andrea Bocelli, 2002. The album was conducted by Lorin Maazel, and Bocelli received two 2003 Classical BRIT Awards for Best selling classical album and Album of the year for Sentimento, in 2003. With 3.5 million sales worldwide, it is one of the best-selling Classical albums of all time.
Andrea Bocelli  Amore (Andrea Bocelli album)  Amore is the eleventh studio album by Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli. It was released on January 31, 2006 and peaked at No. 3 on the Billboard 200 chart, Bocelli's second highest chart position in America, behind his 2009 release My Christmas, to date. It features a remake of Elvis Presley's Can't Help Falling in Love, Because We Believe, a track Bocelli performed at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, and Somos Novios (It's Impossible), a duet with American pop singer Christina Aguilera. A Spanish version of the album was also released in the same year, called Amor. The album went on to sell 1.66 million copies in America, and well over 4 million copies worldwide. Bocelli was the seventh best-selling artist of 2006, in the United States, with 2,524,681 copies of his albums sold that year.
Andrea Bocelli  Under the Desert Sky  Under the Desert Sky is a CD/DVD package of a pop concert by classical Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli. The concert was performed on a specially built floating stage at Lake Las Vegas Resort (near Las Vegas, Nevada) and taped for American television network PBS. It mostly featured songs from Bocelli's previous album, Amore. The package was released on November 7, 2006. It debuted and peaked on the U.S. Billboard 200 at number 11. The DVD also includes interviews about the Amore album, of Bocelli and the producers, David Foster and Humberto Gatica, and was also nominated for an Emmy.
Andrea Bocelli  The Best of Andrea Bocelli: Vivere  The Best of Andrea Bocelli: Vivere is the second greatest hits album released by Italian pop tenor Andrea Bocelli. It includes five new studio recordings and was internationally released, by Sugar, October 22, 2007. Since its release, the album has sold over 3 million copies. The song Vive Ya, (Spanish version of Dare to live ) was nominated for Record of the Year at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2008. In August 2010, 3 years after its release, the album topped the charts in Poland.
Andrea Bocelli  Andrea (album)  Andrea is the tenth studio album released by Andrea Bocelli, in 2004. The album, being Bocelli's fifth pop release, peaked at number 1, on the Dutch Albums Top 100, and stayed on the chart for 33 weeks. It has sold over 2.5 million copies globally, over a million of which were in the United States.
Andrea Bocelli  Cieli di Toscana  Cieli di Toscana (Tuscan Skies) is Andrea Bocelli's eighth studio album, released in 2001. Released only a month after the September 11 attacks, the album spent a total of two weeks at No. 3 on the official UK albums chart, the highest chart position ever for a foreign-language pop album, and reached the Top 3 in at least 9 other countries. The album went on to sell over 4,5 million units woldwide, in 2001. Tuscan Skies, a DVD of music videos of most of the songs of the album, was released the following year.
Andrea Bocelli  Incanto  Incanto is the twelfth studio album by Classical Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli, released November 4, 2008, coinciding with his 50th birthday. The album, a personal tribute to the musical traditions of his homeland, features fourteen Neapolitan love songs of Bocelli's childhood. The two disc set also contains Incanto The Documentary, a bonus DVD containing exclusive documentary footage, including an interview with Bocelli filmed in Naples, alongside a music video showcasing the Italian city in the 1950s. The video features rare clips of notable figures enjoying the romance of Naples in its heyday such as Elizabeth Taylor, Richard Burton, Sophia Loren, John F. Kennedy, among others. On February 21, 2009, at the Italian talk-show, Che tempo che fa, Bocelli received a four times Diamond disc for Incanto, for selling in excess to 1,5 million copies within 4 month of its release. The album was also nominated for album of the year at the 2009 Classical BRIT Awards.
Andrea Bocelli  Il Mare Calmo della Sera  Il Mare Calmo della Sera is the debut album released by Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli, following his win of the Sanremo Festival in 1994, singing his first single and the leading single of the album of the same name. It was followed by the releases of Bocelli, his second pop album, which topped charts all over Europe, in 1995.
Andrea Bocelli  Viaggio Italiano  Viaggio Italiano is Andrea Bocelli's third studio album and first classical album. The album features some of the most popular opera arias and Neapolitan songs of all time, such as Nessun Dorma, O Sole Mio and la Donna è Mobile. Although released only in Italy in 1996, it sold close to 300,000 copies. Bocelli later received the ECHO Klassik Best seller of the year award for the album, after its international release, in 1997. The album eventually sold over 2 million copies worldwide.
Andrea Bocelli  Verdi (album)  Verdi is Andrea Bocelli's seventh studio album and fourth classical album, of Verdi's most famous arias, released in 2000. The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Zubin Mehta, accompanied Bocelli for the album. The album went on to sell over 2 million copies worldwide.
Andrea Bocelli  Aria – the opera album  Aria: The Opera Album is Andrea Bocelli's fourth studio album, released in 1998. The tenor later received the ECHO Klassik, for Best selling classical album for the album in 1998. The album has sold over 3.5 million copies worldwide.
Andrea Bocelli  Vivere Live in Tuscany  Vivere Live in Tuscany is a CD/DVD package of a pop concert by classical Italian tenor Andrea Bocelli. The concert was performed at Bocelli's Teatro del Silenzio in Lajatico, Tuscany, July 2007. In this DVD he performs duets with Sarah Brightman, Elisa, Laura Pausini and Heather Headley, and collaborates with Chris Botti and Lang Lang and Kenny G. It was certified Triple Diamond in Brazil, by the ABPD, with over 375,000 copies sold in the country.
Andrea Bocelli  My Christmas  My Christmas is the thirteenth studio album and first Holiday album released by Italian tenor, Andrea Bocelli. The album is a compilation of seasonal Holiday favorites, mainly in English, with a few selections in Italian, German, and French, produced by multiple Grammy Award winner David Foster, containing collaborations with artists ranging from Mary J. Blige to Reba McEntire, Natalie Cole to Katherine Jenkins and The Mormon Tabernacle Choir to Jim Henson's Muppets. It also includes God Bless Us Everyone, the only new song of the album, which Bocelli recorded for the closing of the 2009 film, A Christmas Carol. A Spanish version of the album called, Mi Navidad, was released November 23, 2009, and a PBS Christmas special of the album, filmed in the Kodak Theatre, was released on DVD, December 8, 2010, after airing on PBS stations nationwide. With over 2.2 million copies sold in 2009, in the United States alone, the album was the best-selling holiday album of the year, and one of the best-selling albums of 2009, with worldwide sales exceeding 5 million copies.
Andrea Bocelli  Romanza  Romanza is the first greatest hits album by Italian singer Andrea Bocelli, released internationally in 1997. The album is Bocelli's most commercially successful to date.
Andrea Bocelli  Carmen: Duets & Arias  Carmen: Duets &amp; Arias is an released in 2010 by Italian tenor, Andrea Bocelli. The album is a collection of arias of Georges Bizet's opera Carmen, including duets with Welsh bass-baritone, Bryn Terfel, Russian mezzo-soprano Marina Domashenko, and Italian soprano Eva Meii, from the French opéra comique.
Angela Vía  Angela Via (album)  Angela Via is the debut album by Angela Via. Originally scheduled for release on June 6, 2000, the album was not available for purchase until 2004 and then, only as a digital download for a limited time. The album features Via's two singles, Picture Perfect and I Don't Care, and includes material recorded before and after Via signed with Lava/Atlantic Records. A Spanish version of the album was also scheduled for release on the same day, but was similarly shelved. Only one single from the Spanish version, Retrato Perfecto (Picture Perfect), was released. Although the album never hit stores, several of its tracks can be found on other commercial releases: Catch Me If You Can which was included on the Pokémon: The First Movie soundtrack and Best Friends which was included on The Little Vampire movie soundtrack. Wish We Could Be Free was renamed Christmas Wish and included on the TRL Christmas CD. In 2003, Kissing You was used in the film Boat Trip. In 2004, Atlantic Records released the album through RealPlayer's music store, where it was available for download for a limited time.
Aya Ueto  Ayaueto  Ayaueto is Aya Ueto
上戸 彩  Ayaueto  Ayaueto is Aya Ueto
Aya Ueto  Message (Aya Ueto album)  Message is Aya Ueto
上戸 彩  Message (Aya Ueto album)  Message is Aya Ueto
Aya Ueto  Re.  Re. is Aya Ueto
上戸 彩  Re.  Re. is Aya Ueto
Aya Ueto  Uetoayamix  Uetoayamix is Aya Ueto's first remix album. It was released on August 24, 2005. It was initially scheduled for release on March 2, 2005 but was eventually postponed. The original plans to include a bonus DVD and 20-page booklet were also scrapped. Two remixes found on the earlier track list, Pureness -Next Evidence Mix- and Namida wo fuite -Steph Pockets Mix- also went unreleased.
上戸 彩  Uetoayamix  Uetoayamix is Aya Ueto's first remix album. It was released on August 24, 2005. It was initially scheduled for release on March 2, 2005 but was eventually postponed. The original plans to include a bonus DVD and 20-page booklet were also scrapped. Two remixes found on the earlier track list, Pureness -Next Evidence Mix- and Namida wo fuite -Steph Pockets Mix- also went unreleased.
Aya Ueto  License (Aya Ueto album)  License is Aya Ueto
上戸 彩  License (Aya Ueto album)  License is Aya Ueto
Aya Ueto  Best of Uetoaya: Single Collection  Best of Uetoaya: Single Collection is Aya Ueto
上戸 彩  Best of Uetoaya: Single Collection  Best of Uetoaya: Single Collection is Aya Ueto
Aya Ueto  Happy Magic: Smile Project  Happy Magic: Smile Project is Aya Ueto's fifth studio album and first concept album, to be released on July 15, 2009. It will be released in two formats: limited CD+DVD+photo book edition and regular edition. Happy Magic: Smile Project is Ueto's first original album in over 3 years. It includes songs written and composed by artists such as Kohmi Hirose, Tortoise Matsumoto, Ryoji, Kiroro, Shintarō Tokita, Hitomi Yaida and Lisa Halim as well as a cover of Begin's Smile.
上戸 彩  Happy Magic: Smile Project  Happy Magic: Smile Project is Aya Ueto's fifth studio album and first concept album, to be released on July 15, 2009. It will be released in two formats: limited CD+DVD+photo book edition and regular edition. Happy Magic: Smile Project is Ueto's first original album in over 3 years. It includes songs written and composed by artists such as Kohmi Hirose, Tortoise Matsumoto, Ryoji, Kiroro, Shintarō Tokita, Hitomi Yaida and Lisa Halim as well as a cover of Begin's Smile.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Nothing from Nothing (EP)  Nothing from Nothing was the first mini-album recorded by Ayumi Hamasaki, featuring Dohzi-T and DJ Bass and released on December 1, 1995. After the album failed to chart, her talent agency and record label, Nippon Columbia, dropped her. The album is now out of print. Due to her subsequent success, it is generally considered a collector's item.
Ayumi Hamasaki  I Am... (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  I am... is the fourth full-length studio album by J-pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki, released on January 1, 2002 in Japan. The album marked an evolution in Hamasaki's lyrical and musical style: Hamasaki began to move away from the themes of loneliness and confusion that had marked her previous albums and began to incorporate elements of rock music in her songs. I am... was a commercial success, both in Japan (selling over 2 million copies) and in other Asian countries. In Singapore, I am... sold over 10,000 copies, unusual for a Japanese album.
Ayumi Hamasaki  My Story (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  My Story is Ayumi Hamasaki's sixth full-length studio album produced by Max Matsuura. It was released on December 15, 2004.
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Song for XX  A Song for XX was Ayumi Hamasaki's debut album on a major label. Though the official release date was January 1, 1999, the album was sold in the record stores since mid-December. To the surprise of many critics,
Ayumi Hamasaki  Loveppears  Loveppears (stylized as LOVEppears; sometimes labeled Love appears) is Ayumi Hamasaki's second studio album. Following the trend of the time, remixes of the songs from Loveppears were released on a second disc. Loveppears sold 1,201,870 copies in its debut week. Like Hamasaki's debut album, Loveppears also topped the Oricon and stayed on the charts for 64 weeks. Loveppears is the 39th best selling album in Japan of all time.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Rainbow (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  Rainbow is the fifth studio album by Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on December 18, 2002, less than a year after I am.... To date Rainbow has sold over 1,858,000 copies and is the 89th best selling album in Japan.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Duty (album)  Duty is the third full-length studio album by Ayumi Hamasaki, as well as being her best-selling studio album to date, with over 2.9 million copies sold. The single Surreal, an initial pressing-only single, was released simultaneously along with the album and the DVD Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.1. All three claimed the top position on the Oricon Weekly charts, making Ayumi Hamasaki the first person to hold the top position on all three charts. Prior to this, the most number of charts that a single artist or musical act topped was two. Duty is also Ayumi Hamasaki's highest selling studio album with sales of 2,904,420 in Japan. The album has been certified 3x Million by RIAJ. It debuted at the number-one position and held that position for four weeks, the album also stayed in the Top 30 for 20 weeks, making Hamasaki's only studio album to stay on the Top 30 for that long. Duty is the 22nd best-selling album in Japan of all times.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Memorial Address  Memorial Address is an EP (often labeled as just a mini-album) by Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki. It is the best-selling mini-album by a Japanese female, selling over a million copies in Japan. It is available in 2 formats, CD or CD+DVD package. It was released on December 17, 2003. All of the songs featured on the CD tracklist (with the exception of Memorial Address, the title track) have a corresponding music video. As of 2008, Memorial Address is the 250th best selling album in Japan. Memorial Address also marked the release of her 30th single, Forgiveness. A concert, called A Museum ~30th Collection Live~, was performed live, and released on DVD later on. In 2007, Avex reported that Memorial Address sold 1,220,000 copies in Japan.
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Ballads  A Ballads is a ballad compilation album by Ayumi Hamasaki released on March 12, 2003. The initial pressings of the album had four different covers. As of 2007, A Ballads surpassed the million mark with 1,041,000 copies sold.
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Best  A Best is a greatest hits album that Avex forced Ayumi Hamasaki to release on March 28, 2001.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2005 A  Ayumi Hamasaki's Arena Tour 2005 A: My Story was a nation-wide tour that took place in early 2005 in order to promote her album, My Story and was released on DVD on August 24, 2005. Almost all the tracks on her My Story album are performed during the tour.
Ayumi Hamasaki  (Miss)understood  (Miss)understood is Ayumi Hamasaki's seventh full-length studio album produced by Max Matsuura. Its official release date was January 1, 2006, but started appearing in stores on December 28, 2005, the last Wednesday of the year. It was recognized by the RIAJ as one of The Best 10 Albums of the Year for 2006 and by the IFPI
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2004–2005 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2004-2005 A is a DVD issued by Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2003–2004 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2003-2004 A was released on September 29, 2004
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2005–2006 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2005-2006 Ais a DVD issued by a Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on the 23 March, 2006.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.1  Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.1 is the first session DVD of the live tour of the Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki that was released on September 13, 2000. The DVD has a multi-angle function to switch between backstage view and audience view.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.2  Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.2 is the second session DVD of the live tour of the Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki that was released on September 27, 2000. Similar to Ayumi Hamasaki Concert Tour 2000 Vol.1, there is also a multi-angle function in the DVD. However, unlike the other concert, there is no backstage view in this concert. The second angle showcases the video effects on the giant video screen in the concert.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Dome Tour 2001 A  Ayumi Hamasaki's Dome Live Tour 2001 A DVD was released on December 12, 2001.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2001–2002 A  Ayumi Hamasaki's Countdown LIVE 2001-2002 A was released in the Complete Live Box DVD.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2002 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2002 A was released on January 29, 2003, the same day Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A was also released.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A DVD was released on January 29, 2003, the same day as Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2002 A was also released.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2002–2003 A  's Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2002-2003 A DVD was released in the Complete Live Box.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A  Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A, by Ayumi Hamasaki, was released on February 25, 2004. Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Clip Box A is a DVD box set compiling all of Hamasaki Ayumi's PVs from 1998 to 2003 on three discs. It also includes various commercials advertising the release of her singles and albums. Be aware that when they say clips, they mean the entire PV.
Ayumi Hamasaki  30th Single Collection Live (Ayumi Hamasaki)  's A Museum ~30th single collection live~ was released on February 25, 2004. This DVD has sold over 100,000 physical copies (102,000 copies sold to date)- the first one to do so since Ayumi Hamasaki Dome Tour 2001 A, which was released on December 12, 2001.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x  Ayu-mi-x remix album is the first remix album that Ayumi Hamasaki has released. The album was released at March 17, 1999 to promote A Song for XX. Ayu-mi-x remix album contains 2 discs. Disc 1 is the Remix Club Side, which contains dance remixes. Disc 2 is the Acoustic Orchestra Side, which contains orchestral remixes and 3 dub mixes.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x II Version Jpn  The JPN version of Ayu-mi-x II is called so because it features Japanese remixers &amp; DJs. This version contains 12 remixes by producers such as GTS, Yukihiro Fukutomi, Fantastic Plastic Machine, Izumi Miyazaki, among others. The album was released on March 8, 2000 in order to further promote Hamasaki's second studio album Loveppears.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x II Version US+EU  This album in the Ayu-mi-x II series is called US+EU because it features DJs and remixers from the United States and Europe. It features 13 remixes by DJs such as Junior Vasquez, The Orb, Hex Hector, Soul Solution, and others. This album was released on March 8, 2000 in order to further promote Hamasaki's second studio album Loveppears.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x II Version Acoustic Orchestra  , Ayu-mi-x II Version Acoustic Orchestra was one of the four Ayu-mi-x II remix albums. This was released on March 8, 2000.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x II Version Non-Stop Mega Mix  The Ayu-mi-x II Version Non-Stop Mega Mix is the final installment of the ayu-mi-x II series, this album featured remixes from the other three installments mixed together by producer Shoji Ueda into a 70-minute megamix. Disc 2 featured all new remixes, including an unfinished version of Far Away (Hal's Mix 2000) and 6 mixes done by then-amateur producers using vocal tracks included on singles. It was released three weeks after the other installments, on March 29, 2000. It's the 11th highest selling remix album worldwide for selling 515,410 copies.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x III Non-Stop Mega Mix Version  Ayu-mi-x III Non-Stop Mega Mix Version is a remix album which was released on February 28, 2001 by Ayumi Hamasaki. The album was released to further promote Hamasaki's third studio album, Duty.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x III Acoustic Orchestra Version  The Ayu-mi-x III Acoustic Orchestra Version is a remix album. All of the songs are from Ayumi Hamasaki's third studio album, Duty.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix  The Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix remix album was released by Ayumi Hamasaki on February 16, 2000. The album became the second highest selling remix album in Japan of 2000 with 650,000 copies sold. The album became Hamasaki's longest charting remix album with over 31 weeks on the chart.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 2  Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 2 is a remix album, consisting of recordings by Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki remixed by various eurobeat producers from Italy, released in the late 2001 by Avex Trax. Like its predecessor Ayu-ro Mix, the album is an issue in the Super Eurobeat Presents : J-Euro series launched in 2000, along with Euro Every Little Thing featuring Every Little Thing, Hyper Euro MAX featuring MAX, Euro Global featuring globe, and Euro Dream Land featuring Dream. Several tracks on the album can also be found on J-Euro Non-Stop Best
Ayumi Hamasaki  Cyber Trance Presents Ayu Trance  Cyber Trance Presents Ayu Trance is a remix album by Ayumi Hamasaki that contains remixes in the trance genre. The album was released on September 27, 2001.
Ayumi Hamasaki  My Story Classical  My Story Classical is a compilation with classical versions of songs from Ayumi Hamasaki's album My Story. My Story Classical was released on March 24, 2005. Most of the tracks were recorded with the Lamoureux Orchestra of France.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x 4 + Selection Non-Stop Mega Mix Version  Ayu-mi-x 4 + Selection Non-Stop Mega Mix Version is a remix album.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x 4 + Selection Acoustic Orchestra Version  Ayu-mi-x 4 + Selection Acoustic Orchestra Version is a remix album by Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki released in 2002, reaching number 9 in the Oricon Weekly music chart.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Cyber trance presents Ayu trance 2  Cyber trance presents Ayu trance 2 is a remix album.
Ayumi Hamasaki  RMX Works from Ayu-mi-x 5 Non-Stop Mega Mix  Ayu-mi-x 5 Non-Stop Mega Mix is Ayumi Hamasaki's fifth Non-Stop Mega Mix remix album, consisting of dance remixes of songs from her 2002 album, Rainbow. It is also her fourteenth overall remix album. This album is so far the lowest selling album out of all her remix albums.
Ayumi Hamasaki  RMX Works from Cyber trance Presents Ayu Trance 3  RMX Works from Cyber trance presents Ayu trance 3 is Ayumi Hamasaki's fifteenth remix album and the third remix album in the Ayu trance series.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Rmx Works from Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 3  Rmx Works from Super Eurobeat Presents Ayu-ro Mix 3 is a remix album featuring songs by Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on September 24, 2003.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Secret (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  Secret is the eighth studio album by Japanese pop singer-songwriter Ayumi Hamasaki, released by Avex Trax on November 29, 2006 in Japan. Hamasaki herself wrote all of the album's lyrics. The album has debuted high on charts across Asia and has gone triple platinum in Japan alone. Secret received an Album of the Year Award at the Japan Gold Disc Awards and its title track received the award for Japanese Song of the Year at the RTHK international awards in Hong Kong. It was also the 22nd best selling album of 2006 according to the Oricon.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2006 A  Ayumi Hamasaki's Arena Tour 2006 A: (Miss)understood is a Japanese nation-wide tour which took place in early 2006. The DVD of the final show in Tokyo was released November 1, 2006. Ayumi performed most of her songs from (Miss)understood, along with some of her most popular songs such as Evolution, Unite!, and Boys &amp; Girls. The third disc contains behind-the-scenes footage plus other special feature material. This DVD has sold over 100,000 physical copies - the first one to do so since Ayumi Hamasaki A Museum: 30th Single Collection Live that was released on February 25, 2004.
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Best 2: Black  A Best 2: Black is one of two CDs in the greatest hits anthology A Best 2 by Japanese pop singer-songwriter Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on February 28, 2007 in Japan along with its counterpart A Best 2: White
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Best 2: White  A Best 2: White is one of two CDs in the greatest hits series A Best 2 by Japanese pop singer-songwriter Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on February 28, 2007 in Japan along with its counterpart A Best 2: Black
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Best 2  A Best 2 is a series of greatest hits compilation albums recorded by Ayumi Hamasaki
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2000–2001 A  Ayumi Hamasaki's Countdown Live 2000-2001 A was released on June 20, 2001
Ayumi Hamasaki  Tour of Secret  Ayumi Hamasaki Asia Tour 2007 A: Tour of Secret is the first Asia-wide and ninth overall concert tour held by Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki, in support of her album Secret. The tour started March 10, 2007, and ended in mid June of the same year, with legs not only in Japan but in other Asian countries as well, making it Hamasaki's first concert tour with non-domestic stops.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Complete Live Box A  A Box Set DVD Compilation album by Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki. This collection consisted of 2 DVDs previously released, and 2 exclusive to the Complete Live Box. In total, the Complete Live Box and its previously released DVDs sold over 90,000 copies. All the DVDs included are as followed Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2001-2002 A* Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2002 A Ayumi Hamasaki Stadium Tour 2002 A Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2002-2003 A*
Ayumi Hamasaki  Real Me (Ayumi Hamasaki song)  Real me is a song from Ayumi Hamasaki's 2002 full-length studio album RAINBOW.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Guilty (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  Guilty is the ninth studio album (tenth overall) by Japanese pop singer-songwriter Ayumi Hamasaki, released by Avex Trax on January 1, 2008 in Japan. Hamasaki herself wrote all lyrics of the album, which went to sell over 400,000 copies its first two weeks of release. Two weeks after its release Avex announced over 750,000 copies of Guilty have been shipped to stores. According to Oricon's 2008 album chart, Guilty is the 17th highest selling album by far and the sixth highest selling album by a female artist. Guilty is the second highest selling Japanese album in Taiwan and China of 2008, only after A Complete: All Singles.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x 6: Gold  Ayu-mi-x 6: Gold is a remix album released by Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki on March 26, 2008, alongside Ayu-mi-x 6: Silver. This is her sixth entry in the ayu-mi-x remix album series, and her first ayu-mi-x album since 2003's Ayu-mi-x V. Including 2004's My Story Classical, it's her first remix album in roughly four years.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayu-mi-x 6: Silver  Ayu-mi-x 6: Silver is a remix album released by Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki on March 26, 2008, alongside Ayu-mi-x 6: Gold. This is her sixth entry in the Ayu-mi-x remix album series, and her first Ayu-mi-x album since 2003's Ayu-mi-x 5. Including 2005's My Story Classical, it is her first remix album in roughly four years.
Ayumi Hamasaki  A Complete: All Singles  A Complete: All Singles is a greatest hits album released by Ayumi Hamasaki on September 10, 2008 to commemorate her tenth anniversary with Avex. The first press of the album came in a special box along with a forty-eight-page photobook that includes previously-unreleased alternate single covers. The album, released in 3CD and 3CD+DVD formats, includes the first tracks from all the singles she has released since 1998. According to Oricon's yearly chart, A Complete is the eighth highest selling album of 2008 and the third highest selling 2008 album by a female artist, behind Namie Amuro's Best Fiction and Utada Hikaru's Heart Station. In Taiwan, A Complete became the year's highest selling Japanese album.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2007-2008 Anniversary  Ayumi Hamasaki Countdown Live 2007-2008 Anniversary is a concert DVD issued by the Japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on the 23 June 2008. File:Ayumi hamasaki Countdown Live 2007 2008 teamayumembers. jpg Ayumi Hamasaki tribute vehicles made by fans, parked outside her Countdown Live 2007-2008 Anniversary concert at the end of 2007.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Next Level (Ayumi Hamasaki album)  Next Level is the tenth studio album (eleventh overall) by Japanese pop singer-songwriter Ayumi Hamasaki, released by Avex Trax on March 25, 2009 in Japan. It was released as a CD only version, a CD+DVD version, and a limited edition 2CD+DVD version with the second CD containing live songs taken from her New Year's Countdown concert. Additionally, it is the first album by Hamasaki and one of the first albums in the world to be released as a USB flash drive. The two GB flash drive includes the 14 songs of the album in MP3 format along with their lyric data, and six music videos in MP4 format. The flash drive edition is priced at ¥6800 (approximately USD$68 at the time of release). The album is certified Double Platinum for shipment of 500,000 copies.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Premium Countdown Live 2008–2009 A  Ayumi Hamasaki Premium Countdown Live 2008-2009 A is Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki's 9th Countdown concert DVD. It was released on the 13th of May, 2009. The DVD topped the Oricon Charts that very week with less than 50,000 copies sold.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Rock 'n' Roll Circus  Rock 'n' Roll Circus is Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki's eleventh studio album, released by Avex Trax on April 14, 2010. The album was released in three different formats, a CD only version, a CD and DVD version, and a box set edition that contains the normal CD and DVD, a 3-DVD set of Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2009 A: Next Level (also released independently on the same day), a mug, red tea packets, and a photobook. The album is certified Platinum by RIAJ for shipment of 250,000 copies.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2009 A: Next Level  Ayumi Hamasaki Arena Tour 2009 A: Next Level is the twelfth concert tour DVD by the Japanese pop singer Ayumi Hamasaki. It was released on the April 14, 2010, the same day of the release of Rock 'n' Roll Circus. On the Oricon weekly chart, it peaked at second place and is currently still charting.
Bette Midler  Broken Blossom  Broken Blossom is the fourth studio album by American singer Bette Midler, her second album release in 1977 and her fifth on the Atlantic Records label. Just as Midler's three previous studio albums Broken Blossom includes songs from a wide variety of genres, ranging from Edith Piaf's signature tune La vie en rose, Phil Spector-esque covers of Billy Joel's Say Goodbye to Hollywood and Harry Nilsson's Paradise and hard rock like Sammy Hagar's Red, to a jazzy duet with Tom Waits, I Never Talk to Strangers, and a rendition of A Dream Is a Wish Your Heart Makes, originally from Walt Disney's 1950 film version of Cinderella
Bette Midler  The Divine Miss M (album)  The Divine Miss M is the debut album by American female vocalist Bette Midler, released in 1972 on the Atlantic Records label. The title of the album refers to Midler's famous stage persona. The Divine Miss M album, co-produced by Barry Manilow, includes several songs that since have become repertoire standards, such as Do You Want To Dance, Chapel of Love, Hello In There, Friends and Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy
Bette Midler  Bette Midler (album)  Bette Midler is the eponymous second studio album by American female vocalist Bette Midler, released in 1973 on the Atlantic Records label. The album, produced by Arif Mardin and Barry Manilow, includes Midler's interpretations of Johnny Mercer and Hoagy Carmichael's Skylark, Berthold Brecht and Kurt Weill's Surabaya Johnny, Bob Dylan's I Shall Be Released and Glenn Miller's In the Mood as well as a Phil Spector
Bette Midler  Songs for the New Depression  Songs for the New Depression is the third studio album by American female vocalist Bette Midler, released in early 1976 on the Atlantic Records label. The album which saw Midler making her debut as a composer (Mr. Rockefeller and the French language Samedi et Vendredi), as well as co-producer and sound engineer features contributions from musicians as diverse as soul singer Luther Vandross, Todd Rundgren and Brazilian jazz accodionist Sivuca. Songs for the New Depression includes Midler's version of Tom Waits' Shiver Me Timbers, a duet with Bob Dylan, Buckets of Rain, and opens with her discofied take on Frank Sinatra
Bette Midler  Live at Last (Bette Midler album)  Live at Last is the first live album by American singer Bette Midler, a two-disc set released in 1977, Midler's fourth album release on the Atlantic Records label. The album spawned from her live, recorded performance, 'The Depression Tour' in Cleveland, entitled 'The Bette Midler Show'. Live at Last documents a full-length live performance at the Cleveland Music Hall, Cleveland, Ohio on the 1976 Depression Tour, and sees Midler, her backing group The Staggering Harlettes and her band Betsy and the Blowboys covering material from her three first albums as well as The Supremes' Up The Ladder to the Roof, Neil Young's Birds, Ringo Starr's Oh My My, the mock lounge act The Vicky Eydie Show doing a global revue and the song cycle The Story of Nanette. The album also captures Midler's rapport with - or loving heckling of - the Cleveland audience, a monologue about fried eggs and a part that since has become a staple of her live performances: the raunchy Sophie Tucker jokes. Live at Last features one new studio recording, You're Moving Out Today, co-written by Midler and Carole Bayer Sager and produced by Tom Dowd
Bette Midler  Thighs and Whispers  Thighs and Whispers is the fifth studio album by American singer Bette Midler
Bette Midler  The Rose (soundtrack)  The Rose is the soundtrack to the feature film of the same name starring Bette Midler which was released in 1980. Midler performs all the songs on the album, with the exception of the instrumental Camelia. The soundtrack was apart from the title track entirely recorded live and also features concert monologues, with Midler portraying the character The Rose/Pearl, loosely based on legendary blues singer Janis Joplin. The soundtrack was produced by Paul A. Rothchild, who in fact also had worked with Joplin on what was to become her final album before her death in 1970, entitled Pearl and released posthumously. Midler's portrayal of The Rose/Pearl, which was her acting debut, earned her an Oscar nomination for Best Actress in 1980 and became the start of her career in movies. The first single to be lifted off the soundtrack was Midler's rendition of Percy Sledge's When a Man Loves a Woman
Bette Midler  Divine Madness (Bette Midler album)  Divine Madness is an album by American singer Bette Midler, released in 1980. It is a live recording taken from Midler's Divine Madness concert film, released the same year. The album, however, does not contain any of Midler's comedy routines and features only her musical performances from the show and it in fact only provides half of the songs that appear in the film. The original live recordings were also to a large extent edited and re-recorded in the studio for the soundtrack album. Among the tracks included are Big Noise From Winnetka, from Midler's disco album Thighs and Whispers, repertoire standards like Shiver Me Timbers, Chapel of Love, Leader of The Pack and Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy along with two tracks from her movie The Rose, Stay With Me and Fire Down Below (not originally included on the soundtrack) released earlier in 1980 and the Divine Madness album closes with renditions of rock classics like Bruce Springsteen's E Street Shuffle, The Rolling Stones' You Can't Always Get What You Want and Bob Dylan
Bette Midler  Mud Will Be Flung Tonight  Mud Will Be Flung Tonight is an album by the American singer and comedienne Bette Midler. It is a live recording of one of Midler's stand-up comedy shows performed in 1985. Although primarily a spoken word album, Midler is accompanied onstage by her long-time musical collaborator Marc Shaiman on piano. The album captures Midler throwing mud into the faces of some of your favorites, among them Madonna (Like a virgin..... ? Touched for the very first time.... ? For the very first time today!) Meryl Streep, Bruce Springsteen and Olivia Newton-John (Let's get physical... let me hear your body talk..... My body said Fuck you!!!) and it also includes the original version of the song Otto Titsling, three years later re-recorded in the studio and prominently featured in the movie Beaches.
Bette Midler  No Frills (album)  No Frills is the sixth studio album by American singer Bette Midler, released on Atlantic Records in 1983. No Frills was Midler's first studio album in four years, following the movies The Rose, Divine Madness! and the ill-fated Jinxed!. The rock and new wave influenced album was produced by Chuck Plotkin, best known for his work with Bob Dylan and Bruce Springsteen, and included three single releases; the ballad All I Need to Know, a cover of Marshall Crenshaw's My Favourite Waste of Time and Midler's take on the Rolling Stones
Bette Midler  Some People's Lives  Some People's Lives is the seventh studio album by American singer Bette Midler, released on the Atlantic Records label in 1990. It contains one of her biggest hits, From A Distance, which won her a Grammy for Song of the Year in 1991. Following a series of successful Hollywood movies made throughout the 1980s, among them Down and Out in Beverly Hills, Ruthless People, Outrageous Fortune and Big Business, Midler returned to the music scene with a proper studio album in 1990, her first since 1983's rock and new wave influenced No Frills. Some People's Lives however had more in common with the preceding soundtrack Beaches in that it featured both interpretations of jazz standards like Miss Otis Regrets, Spring Can Really Hang You up the Most and He Was Too Good to Me as well as more chart oriented pop and adult contemporary material with contrasting synth-driven arrangements courtesy of producer Arif Mardin, his son Joe and Robbie Buchanan. The up-tempo track Moonlight Dancing was written by noted hitmaker Diane Warren and The Gift of Love by Tom Kelly and Billy Steinberg, the team behind Madonna's Like A Virgin, Cyndi Lauper's True Colors and The Bangles' Eternal Flame. Moonlight Dancing (also released as an extended dance remix which sampled the 1973 recording Do You Want To Dance), Night and Day and The Gift of Love were all issued as singles, but the biggest hit that the album produced was undoubtedly Midler's interpretation of Julie Gold's anti-war anthem From a Distance featuring The Radio Choir of New Hope Church, paradoxally released shortly before the breakout of the first Persian Gulf War
Bette Midler  For the Boys (soundtrack)  For the Boys is the soundtrack to the feature film of the same name starring Bette Midler and James Caan, released on the Atlantic Records label in 1991. In the movie Midler and Caan play the USO entertainers Dixie Leonard and Eddie Sparks who travel and perform together through World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War and the soundtrack mainly consists of period music from the songbooks of Hoagy Carmichael, Ray Evans, Johnny Mercer, Harold Arlen and Frank Loesser, including jazz standards and evergreens like P.S. I Love You, Stuff Like That There, Come Rain or Come Shine and Leonard and Sparks' signature tune I Remember You. A few of the tracks performed by Midler and Caan were however originals composed especially for the movie; Dixie's Dream was written by Midler's longtime collaborator Marc Shaiman and Dreamland by Alan and Marilyn Bergman and co-producer Dave Grusin, and Grusin also wrote the Golden Globe nominated original score. For The Boys was promoted by the Diane Warren-penned ballad Every Road Leads Back To You which became a Top 20 hit on the US adult contemporary
Bette Midler  Experience the Divine  Experience the Divine: Greatest Hits is a compilation album by American singer Bette Midler, featuring many of her best-known songs. The fourteen track compilation was released on Atlantic Records in 1993. While several greatest hits albums with Midler had been released in the UK, Continental Europe, Scandinavia, Australia, New Zealand and Japan throughout the 70s and 80s, such as The Best of Bette (1978) and The Best of Bette (1981) - two different compilations with the same title - and Just Hits (1987), this was the first career overview to be released worldwide including the US and Canada, some twenty years after Midler recorded her first studio album for the Atlantic Records label. The album included one new recording, Midler's Emmy Award winning rendition of One for My Baby (and One More for the Road), sung to retiring talk show host Johnny Carson on the penultimate Tonight Show
Bette Midler  Bette of Roses  Bette of Roses is the eighth studio album by American singer Bette Midler, released on Atlantic Records in 1995. It became Midler's final album for the label, twenty-three years after the release of her debut and breakthrough The Divine Miss M. The title Bette of Roses is a play on one of the tracks included; Bed of Roses. Bette of Roses was Midler's first full-length studio album since 1990's Some People's Lives
Bette Midler  Bette (album)  Bette is a self titled album by Bette Midler, released in 2000.
Bette Midler  Bathhouse Betty  Bathhouse Betty is the ninth studio album by the American singer Bette Midler, released in 1998. Bathhouse Betty was Midler's debut album for Warner Bros. Records, after having parted ways with sister label Atlantic Records in 1995 following the moderate commercial success of her album Bette of Roses. The title of the album, Bathhouse Betty, refers to Midler's early career when she performed her cabaret shows at gay bathhouses like the Continental Baths in New York which led to her becoming a gay icon with a loyal LGBT following ever since. When Midler promoted the album she said in an interview Despite the way things turned out [with the AIDS crisis], I'm still proud of those days [when I got my start singing at the gay bathhouses]. I feel like I was at the forefront of the gay liberation movement, and I hope I did my part to help it move forward. So, I kind of wear the label of 'Bathhouse Betty' with pride.  . Released some twenty-five years after Midler's breakthrough with the album The Divine Miss M, Bathhouse Betty was musically a comeback and a return to her roots and her high camp Mae-West-meets-the-Andrews-Sisters stage persona of the same name. The first single I'm Beautiful Dammitt! - in fact not an original but a remake of a song by house music group Uncanny Alliance - even opens with the spoken line Hi! This is the Divine Miss M and I'm here to tell you about my cosmic fabulosity! and effectively set the tone for the following album. Ukulele Lady, a tribute to Midler's native Hawaii which she had first performed live in the 1997 TV special Diva Las Vegas, is an old evergreen written by Gus Kahn and Richard Whiting, published in 1925 and first made famous by Vaughn De Leath - and later covered by among others Miss Piggy. Other cover versions on Bathhouse Betty include early girl group classics like Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles' debut single I Sold My Heart to the Junkman and 1950's R&amp;B chanteuse Big Maybelle's One Monkey Don't Stop No Show, the latter featuring swing-rock band Royal Crown Revue. Contemporary covers include Ben Folds' tragicomic Boxing, an imagined monologue by Muhammad Ali, originally featured on Ben Folds Five's 1995 self-titled debut album, Dave Frishberg's I'm Hip and Dick Gallagher and Mark Waldrop's Laughing Matters, taken from Howard Crabtree's 1996 gay musical revue When Pigs Fly. Big Socks, an original written and produced by Chuckii Booker, is a tongue-in-cheek contemporary R&amp;B track whose lyrics debate the supposed correlation between the size of men's feet and other body parts; Don't brag about your body, baby, and say that you're packin' a lot, 'cause all I see besides your big feet is that you got big socks.  Bathhouse Betty was not all campiness and laughs however, the album opens with the ballad Song of Bernadette written by Leonard Cohen, Bill Elliott and Jennifer Warnes, and first recorded by Warnes on her 1987 album Famous Blue Raincoat. The title and the lyrics of the song refer to Bernadette Soubirous, a young French girl in the mid 19th century who claimed to have seen the Virgin Mary on several occasions. Bernadette was subsequently declared insane by the villagers of Lourdes - but canonized by the Catholic Church and proclaimed Saint Bernadette after her death. Lullaby in Blue, which Midler described as her personal favourite on the album, was co-written by Leonard Cohen's son Adam and is a song about a woman who gave up a child for adoption: I've never heard a pop song about a person who gives their child up and is missing the child... The first time I heard that song, I burst into tears.  The second single released from the album was the melancholy My One True Friend, composed by David Foster, Carole King and Carole Bayer Sager and the lead song from the movie One True Thing which starred Meryl Streep and William Hurt. One track from the Bathhouse Betty sessions, Julie Gold's Heaven, was only released as a single B-side and featured as a bonus track on the Japanese edition of the album. Gold had previo
Bette Midler  Bette Midler Sings the Peggy Lee Songbook  Bette Midler Sings the Peggy Lee Songbook is an album by Bette Midler. The album was produced by Barry Manilow as a follow-up to their grammy-nominated album Bette Midler Sings the Rosemary Clooney Songbook. ... Peggy Lee Songbook was Bette's first album released in the DualDisc format. The DVD features are limited, offering just a few short clips that could be described as videos. This album is known to have been affected by Extended Copy Protection technology. http://cp. sonybmg. com/xcp/english/titles. html
Bette Midler  Cool Yule  Cool Yule is a holiday album by Bette Midler released on October 10, 2006. The album features many Christmas tunes as well as a reworking of her Grammy-winning hit From a Distance. On December 6, 2007, the album was given a Grammy nomination for Best Traditional Pop Vocal Album.
Bette Midler  Bette Midler Sings the Rosemary Clooney Songbook  Bette Midler Sings the Rosemary Clooney Songbook is an album by the American singer Bette Midler. It was produced by Barry Manilow and marked the first time that Midler had worked with Manilow in more than twenty years. It was also Midler's first album for Columbia Records after nearly 30 years recording for Warner Music Group (being signed at times to both Atlantic Records and Warner Bros. Records). Columbia Records is owned by Sony Music Entertainment. After the death of singer Rosemary Clooney, Manilow claims to have had a dream that he would produce a tribute album and Midler would be the singer on the album. In the liner notes, Midler writes, When Barry approached me (I had this dream!) about recording an album of Rosemary's standards, I was excited, but apprehensive. I wanted to be respectful, but I felt we had to find something new to say as well, and in these (mostly) new arrangements... I believe we have.  Bette Midler Sings the Rosemay Clooney Songbook was Midler's first album with Columbia Records after being dropped by Warner Brothers in 2001 for declining record sales. It was followed up with Bette Midler Sings the Peggy Lee Songbook, which was somewhat less successful.
Bette Midler  The Best of Bette (1978 album)  The Best of Bette was the first compilation album by American female vocalist Bette Midler, released in 1978. This greatest hits album was issued in the UK, Continental Europe, Scandinavia and Australia to coincide with Midler's first world tour. Later editions released in 1979 also came with a free poster promoting her then upcoming movie The Rose. The Best of Bette, confusingly released with near identical cover art to 1973's Bette Midler, featured songs from Midler's first four studio albums with the addition of one track from 1977's Live at Last, the studio recording You're Moving Out Today. The version included on The Best of Bette is the rare single mix which features an extra verse that is not found on the Live at Last album or on many of the single releases worldwide. While other hits compilations followed in both Australia and New Zealand in the 1980s, such as the 1981 version of The Best of Bette on the K-tel label and 1987's Just Hits, Midler's first best of collection issued in the US was 1993's Experience the Divine. The Best of Bette including the rare single mix of You're Moving Out Today was issued on CD in Australia only in 1987.
Bette Midler  Gypsy (soundtrack)  Gypsy is the soundtrack to the television film Gypsy. Based on the autobiography of Gypsy Rose Lee, this made-for-TV adaptation of the 1959 musical Gypsy: A Musical Fable written by Jule Styne and Stephen Sondheim depicts the life and times of a stripper and her domineering mother. The album was released in 1993 and features Bette Midler, who also starred in the film as the character Mama Rose. Midler's performance earned her a Golden Globe Award in 1994 for Best Actress in a Mini-Series or a TV Film. Gypsy also received an unprecedented twelve Emmy nominations. Despite the fact that the film only aired on the CBS channel in the US and the soundtrack only featured Midler on seven of the seventeen tracks it was released as a Bette Midler album by Atlantic Records worldwide in 1993. The film has however since been released on VHS/DVD in most parts of the world. The Gypsy soundtrack peaked at #183 on Billboard's album chart but failed to chart in the UK.
Bette Midler  Beaches (soundtrack)  Beaches is the soundtrack to the Academy Award nominated feature film of the same name starring Bette Midler, who performs most of the tracks on the album, released on the Atlantic Records label in 1988 The album features one of Midler's best known songs, the ballad Wind Beneath My Wings which was a #1 hit. The track that was chosen to promote both the movie and the album was not Wind Beneath My Wings, but the song heard in the movies' opening scene and also the opening track on the album, Midler's cover of The Drifters' 60s classic Under The Boardwalk, alluding to the title of the movie and also the place where the movie's main characters rich girl Hillary Whitney and child performer Cecilia Carol CC Bloom (Bette Midler) first meet. The single, released to tie in with the premiere in December 1988, peaked outside Billboard's Hot 100 chart and passed unnoticed. Wind Beneath My Wings, a song which had been recorded by several other artists before Midler in the early 1980s, among them Sheena Easton, Roger Whittaker, Gary Morris, Gladys Knight &amp; the Pips and Lou Rawls, was released as the second single in the Spring of 1989, following the box office success of the movie, and became a #1 hit on the US singles chart, #2 on the adult contemporary chart, a #3 hit in the UK, #1 in Australia and a Top 10 hit single in many parts of the world. Midler's recording of the song was later awarded a platinum disc by the RIAA for sales exceeding one million copies in the US alone. It was named Record of the Year and Song of the Year at the Grammy Awards of 1990 and today is Midler's signature tune. The recording of the song appearing in the film is notably different to the one released on the soundtrack, and the movie also includes an orchestral version over the end credits. The remainder of the soundtrack musically follows C.C. Bloom's rise to fame as an artist, from doing Cole Porter standards like I've Still Got My Health to moderately appreciative audiences in dive bars, appearing in burlesque shows singing about the supposed German inventor of the brassiere (Otto Titsling, a song Midler herself had co-written and which had already appeared on her 1985 album Mud Will Be Flung Tonight), joining an experimental theater group (Oh Industry!), to becoming a successful pop star (I Know You By Heart, a duet with David Pack, only briefly heard in the movie) with the right to record material of her own choosing (Randy Newman's I Think It's Going To Rain Today). A recurring theme in the movie is Billy Hill's old swing standard The Glory of Love, first made famous by Benny Goodman in the mid 1930s. In Beaches the song is first reluctantly sung as an upbeat showtune by a very young C.C. Bloom at an audition in the company of her overbearing stage mother. In the final scene the song is performed as a ballad by the character as an adult, and then in the context of the movie taking on an entirely different meaning. The track Baby Mine, originally from Walt Disney's 1941 movie Dumbo, was released in two versions with slightly different arrangements; one on the original vinyl album and another on the CD edition. The Beaches soundtrack is the bestselling album of Midler's career to date, peaking at #2 on Billboard's album chart, #21 in the UK and eventually achieving triple platinum status in the US for having sold more than three million copies.
Bette Midler  Jackpot: The Best Bette  Jackpot! The Best Bette (known as The Best Bette in Europe) is a compilation album of recordings by American singer Bette Midler released on September 23, 2008. The album release was originally set to coincide with Midler's current Las Vegas show, Bette Midler: The Showgirl Must Go On which debuted on February 20, 2008 at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, but was postponed to April, then August 26, and later to the actual September release. After some thirty-five years in showbusiness and having recorded some twenty albums for Atlantic Records/Warner Music and three for Columbia Records/Sony BMG, this is the second single-disc compilation of Midler's best-known recordings, following 1993/1996's Experience the Divine, and this time released by Warner Music Group's reissue subsidiary Rhino Entertainment. Jackpot! The Best Bette includes three titles from Midler's more recent albums for Columbia, This Ole House, Tenderly and Cool Yule, and also sees the debut of one previously unreleased track, Something Your Heart's Been Telling Me, co-written by Midler, Robert Kraft and Barry Reynolds and originally cut as a demo by the singer herself in 1984 but first released by Roberta Flack who recorded the song for her 1991 album Set the Night to Music.
Bette Midler  The Best of Bette (1981 album)  The Best of Bette is a compilation album by American singer Bette Midler, released on the K-tel label in Australia and New Zealand in 1981. The album was the second compilation to use the title The Best of Bette, the previous version with different cover art and an entirely different track list having been released on the Atlantic Records label in both the UK, Continental Europe, Scandinavia, Australia and New Zealand in 1978. The K-tel compilation is highly notable in Midler's discography for a number of reasons, the first of them being that it was released by the US based K-tel label instead of Midler's original label Atlantic Records (today a subsidiary of Warner Music Group). K-Tel was a budget-price label specialising in releasing as-seen-on-TV compilations including the latest chart hits but at this stage rarely released a whole albums' worth of recordings by the one and same artist. Atlantic Records had exclusive rights to Midler's catalogue worldwide, the sixteen tracks were consequently licensed from Atlantic - but obviously only for release in Australia and New Zealand, not in the US or Europe. The second reason making the album both notable and collectable is the track selection; the album includes songs that by 1981 already had become standards in Midler's repertoire such as her signature tune Friends, Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy, Delta Dawn and Do You Want To Dance and combines these with ten tracks taken from her then three most recent albums; a) the disco-flavoured Thighs and Whispers (1979) and the two hit singles Married Men and My Knight In Black Leather, b) the soundtrack The Rose (1980) and live recordings like When A Man Loves A Woman, Midnight In Memphis and Love With A Feeling (the latter two never issued as singles) as well as the studio-recorded title track The Rose (the single version with orchestral overdubs, in effect making its debut on this album) and finally c) the soundtrack to the concert documentary Divine Madness (1980) and the tracks My Mother's Eyes (the only single release from the album) and Fire Down Below (also featured in the movie The Rose, but first released on the Divine Madness album). The K-Tel compilation couples these with a few selections from the albums Broken Blossom and Live at Last such as Say Goodbye To Hollywood and You're Moving Out Today, the latter, a rare single mix with an additional verse making its second appearance on a compilation album. The pictures used for the cover of the K-Tel version of The Best of Bette show Midler in concert, taken from the movie The Rose. The compilation is sometimes listed as having been released in 1980, other times in 1981. Considering the fact that the Divine Madness album was released worldwide in November 1980 it was more likely issued in 1981. The first Bette Midler greatest hits compilation to be released worldwide, including the US and Canada, was 1993's Experience the Divine.
Bette Midler  Just Hits  Just Hits is a compilation album by American singer Bette Midler, released on the Atlantic Records label in Australia and New Zealand in 1987. The album was the third greatest hits compilation with Midler to be released in Australasia, following 1978's The Best of Bette and a second release with the same title on the K-tel label in 1981. The eighteen track Just Hits includes two titles from Midler's then most recent studio album No Frills (1983), the Rolling Stones cover Beast of Burden and Is It Love, but mainly focuses on material from her 1972 debut The Divine Miss M and repertoire standards like Friends, Boogie Woogie Bugle Boy, Do You Wanna Dance, Leader of The Pack and Delta Dawn and the 1980 soundtrack The Rose and songs like When A Man Loves A Woman, Stay With Me and the title track The Rose. The compilation also, somewhat unusually, includes the last sixty seconds of the Phil Spector medley Uptown/Don't Say Nothin' Bad (About My Baby)/Da Doo Ron Ron from the 1973 album Bette Midler and consequently only Da Doo Ron Ron. The rare single version of the 1977 track You're Moving Out Today also makes its third appearance on this compilation. The picture used for the cover of Just Hits is in fact the very same as the K-Tel version of The Best of Bette which shows Midler in concert, taken from the movie The Rose. The first Bette Midler greatest hits compilation to be released worldwide, including the US and Canada, was 1993's Experience the Divine.
Beverley Craven  Beverley Craven (album)  Beverley Craven is the debut album by British singer Beverley Craven. It was released in July 1990. The album was fully written by Craven herself. Craven signed to Epic Records in 1988, and initially recorded the album with American producer Stewart Levine. The initial results, however, were not of Craven's liking and, with the agreement of her label, she re-started from scratch working with Paul Samwell-Smith, who eventually produced the whole album. Levine's production of her songs were eventually released as b-sides to some of her singles, under the label West Coast Version. Released in July 1990, the album was initially a flop in the UK, with its singles and the album failing to reach the charts. She found however some success around continental Europe in 1990 and toured there to support the release. Craven made her first UK tour in early 1991, which was successful. In April 1991, the original lead single Promise Me
Beverley Craven  Love Scenes (Beverley Craven album)  Love Scenes is Beverley Craven's second studio album, released in September 1993 through Epic Records.
Beverley Craven  Mixed Emotions (Beverley Craven album)  Mixed Emotions is the third studio album by Beverley Craven. It was released in 1999. The album was released after a 5 year hiatus, in which Craven gave birth to two daughters and took time off to take care of her 3 children. On this album she did not collaborate with the producer of her previous two albums, Paul Samwell-Smith
Beverley Craven  The Very Best of Beverley Craven  The Very Best Of Beverley Craven is a compilation album by Beverley Craven.
Beverley Craven  Legends (Beverley Craven album)  Legends is a compilation album by Beverley Craven.
Beverley Craven  Close to Home (album)  Close To Home is Beverley Craven's fourth studio album, her first in ten years. Craven abandoned her music career in 2000, a mixture of writer's block and the need to take care of her three young daughters. In 2004 she made a slow comeback, doing a handful of live appearances, but was diagnosed with breast cancer shortly after. After receiving treatment and given the all-clear, Craven decided to resume her music career. Close To Home was released in March 2009 and was wholly written and produced by the singer. Craven released the album on her own label Campsie Music, and initially sold the album only through her website and at concerts. In the summer of 2009 the album was made available to buy through Amazon. com, and digitally through itunes. A promo single for Rainbows was sent to UK radios, and a videoclip was also recorded for it. The song was later available as a digital download single. The song Everlasting Love was written and recorded in 1995 for the film First Knight (with the title Legendary Love), however it was rejected by the film's producers. Two of the songs directly draw from her breast cancer diagnosis: Rainbows, and Without Me, which was written for her daughters.
Beyoncé Knowles  Dangerously in Love  Dangerously in Love is the debut solo album of American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles, released June 22, 2003 on Columbia Records. Recordings sessions for the album took place during 2002 to March 2003 at several recording studios, during the hiatus of her former group Destiny's Child. Primarily R&amp;B and soul-oriented, the album is mostly composed of uptempo songs and ballads, and features elements of hip hop and Arabic music. Although Knowles remained discreet about her interpretation of the songs, the lyrics were attributed by music writers to her close relationship with rapper Jay-Z at the time. Upon its release, Dangerously in Love propelled Knowles' aim in becoming a viable solo star, as well as one of the most marketable acts in the recording industry. It debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, selling 317,000 copies in its first week. The album became a worldwide commercial success, earning multi-platinum certifications in Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Dangerously in Love received generally mixed to positive reviews from music critics upon its release and earned Knowles five Grammy Awards.
Beyoncé Knowles  B'Day  B'Day is the second studio album by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles, released September 4, 2006, on Columbia Records in collaboration with Music World Music and Sony Urban Music. Its release coincided with Knowles' twenty-fifth birthday. The album was originally planned for a 2004 release as a follow-up to her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003). However, the project was put on hiatus due to the recording of Destiny's Child's final studio album Destiny Fulfilled and her starring role in the 2006 movie Dreamgirls. While on vacation after filming for Dreamgirls, Knowles began contacting various producers; she had employed technique for faster collaboration, and completed B'Day in three weeks. Most of the lyrical content of the album was inspired by Knowles' role in the film. The album's musical style ranges from '70s to '80s funk and balladry to urban contemporary elements such as hip hop and R&amp;B. Live instrumentation was employed on most tracks as part of Knowles' vision of creating a record using live instruments. The album debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, selling 541,000 copies in its first week, and it has been certified triple platinum in sales by the RIAA. It was also successful in international music markets and yielded six singles, including three worldwide hits, Déjà Vu, Irreplaceable, and Beautiful Liar. Upon its release, B'Day received generally positive reviews from most music critics and earned Knowles several accolades, including a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&amp;B Album at the 49th Grammy Awards.
Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé: Live at Wembley  Beyoncé: Live at Wembley is a DVD/CD by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles, released on April 27, 2004. The DVD features her concert at Wembley Arena in Wembley, London, England as part of the Dangerously in Love Tour.
Beyoncé Knowles  B'Day Anthology Video Album  B'Day Anthology Video Album is a video album, released by the American R&amp;B singer-songwriter Beyoncé Knowles, it was released alongside B'Day: Deluxe Edition on April 3, 2007. The B'Day Anthology Video Album was a Wal-Mart exclusive product in the United States but is now sold in other stores. This DVD contains the music videos already shot to promote the singles released from the album. In addition to those videos, Beyoncé also went on to record music videos to many of the rest of the tracks. Although claiming to record a video for every song on the entire B'Day album, there was no music video for Resentment on the DVD. Minor clips of all these videos were shown on MTV's TRL on the day Beyoncé went there to premiere Beautiful Liar. These small clips were also shown on BET's 106 &amp; Park while the singer was there to premiere Upgrade U. The compilation DVD was also promoted by a BET and a MTV Hits special which premiered the videos with Beyoncé's commentary about the filming process and/or the lyrics. The album has been certified two-time platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. In late March, the music videos which were previously unseen by the public leaked on the internet. On April 2, the full-length videos for Get Me Bodied (Extended Mix), Kitty Kat/Green Light, and Suga Mama premiered on BET to promote the B'Day Anthology Video Album which was released on the following day. The videos have garnished thousands of views on YouTube and other video sharing sites even though this clearly violates the terms of use of those sites. A copyright infringement is that this video album contains the track Still in Love (Kissing You), a cover of the song Kissing You, originally performed by Des'ree. Des'ree filed a lawsuit against Beyoncé on April 18, 2007, alleging Knowles never obtained proper clearance to use the song. Des'ree claims the terms her team submitted to Knowles for use of the song were not satisfactory, despite that Knowles ignored copyright submitted the track to her label for her album. Des'ree is seeking $150,000 in damages.
Beyoncé Knowles  Irreemplazable  Irreemplazable is a Spanish and Spanglish fare album by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles. Originally released as a bonus disc on the deluxe edition of B'Day, it was released on August 28, 2007 in the United States as an EP. At the same time, a CD/DVD combo was released exclusively at Wal-mart. The DVD features a behind-the-scenes documentary entitled La Evolución Latina de Beyoncé (Beyoncé's Latin Evolution), as well as the music video for Beyoncé's Get Me Bodied featuring Voltio. The EP sold 50,000 copies in the United States with a total of 100,000 sold worldwide, being a lower seller than her remix album.
Beyoncé Knowles  Suga Mama  Suga Mama is a song by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles. It was written by Knowles, Rich Harrison, and Makeba; Harrison and Knowles produced the track for her second solo album, B'Day. It contains a sample of Jake Wade and the Soul Searchers' song Searching for Soul, which was written by Chuck Middleton. The song is influenced by 1970s funk and contains limited elements of 1980s go-go, with sound that closely resembles live music. The music video for the song was released in April 2007 on British television. Critical reviews of the song were generally positive.
Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé The Ultimate Performer  Beyoncé The Ultimate Performer is a DVD by R&amp;B artist Beyoncé Knowles. It was released via BET and Columbia in the US on November 24, 2006. It features exclusive interviews, footage from France, Japan, United Kingdom, and New York, and clips from her birthday celebration concert in Tokyo.
Beyoncé Knowles  The Beyoncé Experience Live  The Beyoncé Experience Live is a live DVD by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles that was released in the US on November 20, 2007 and was released on November 26 in the UK. It was shot in Staples Center, Los Angeles, California, on September 2, 2007 during her worldwide tour The Beyoncé Experience. The DVD features guest appearances from rapper Jay-Z on Upgrade U and former Destiny's Child mates Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland on Survivor. For one night only on November 19, 2007 the show was shown in theaters across the U.S. BET aired an edited version of the concert on Thanksgiving day. The DVD has also been released on iTunes as an audio version called The Beyoncé Experience: Live Audio. The DVD was released in Blu-Ray Disc format on November 18, 2008. Beyonce's third solo album, I Am... Sasha Fierce, was released on the same date. A cut-down version of the Los Angeles show was also shown in the UK on Channel 4 and in Germany, Austria and Switzerland on 3sat. The DVD features a 27-song jukebox feature which was achieved by the use of advanced bitwise programming. The DVD was authored by Neil Matthews at Ascent Media in New York City. The DVD has been certified three-time platinum by the RIAA.
Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé Karaoke Hits, Vol. I  Beyoncé Karaoke Hits, Vol. I is a 2008 karaoke album EP by Beyoncé Knowles. The album contains karaoke versions of songs from the deluxe edition of her previous album B'Day and songs from her Irreemplazable EP. The album was released on March 11, 2008 digitally to online retailers such as iTunes. Although there are several albums featuring karaoke versions of Knowles' songs, this is the only official karaoke album released by Sony BMG Music Entertainment and the only to feature her actual voice on the backing vocals.
Beyoncé Knowles  I Am... Sasha Fierce  I Am… Sasha Fierce is the third studio album by American R&amp;B recording artist Beyoncé. It was released on November 18, 2008, by Columbia Records. It is classified as a dual disc album; the first disc I Am... incorporates slow and mid-tempo R&amp;B ballads and pop songs, while the second disc Sasha Fierce, named after Beyoncé's alter ego, contains more uptempo danceable songs which cross from Euro to electropop. A deluxe edition of the album was released simultaneously with its standard edition in international markets in November and December 2008. Beyoncé was inspired by her husband Jay-Z and especially by Etta James, who helped her to broaden her horizons. Musically, 'I Am... ' drew inspiration from folk and alternative songs and acoustic guitar and the contemporary ballads on this disc were produced, written and recorded by Beyoncé along with Kenneth Edmonds, Tricky Stewart and Terius Nash, Toby Gad and Ryan Tedder while 'Sasha Fierce', being the fresh modern sound of the alter ego, utilizes production and songwriting from Rodney Jerkins, Sean Garrett, Solange, Rico Love and Jim Jonsin. Critics received the album with mixed to positive reviews with many of them stating that the collection might have been better served if Beyoncé had edited it down to one disc. The album debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 chart, selling 482,000 units in its first week. I Am... Sasha Fierce has proven commercially successful, earning at least 14 platinum certifications, each from a different country and reaching top-ten in charts around the world. The album charted from 2008 to 2010 in several charts around the world. In celebration of the album's numerous achievements, a remix album with videography, a platinum edition along with a re-issue deluxe edition as well as an EP titled I Am... Sasha Fierce - The Bonus Tracks were made available towards the end of 2009. The two lead singles from I Am... Sasha Fierce, If I Were a Boy and Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It), were both international hits. The first song topped the charts in over eight countries, and reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States, while the second was able to peak inside the top ten in the charts of major musical markets, while becoming her fifth number one hit on the Hot 100 chart. Diva and Ego were released as US-Only singles while Halo and Sweet Dreams were promoted internationally as the third and fourth single respectively. Broken-Hearted Girl was serviced internationally as the fifth single though it was not officially released in neither the United States nor the Netherlands. Video Phone was released in November 2009 with a remixed version featuring pop singer Lady Gaga and the last single, being Why Don't You Love Me got a proper digital release in the United Kingdom in August 2010. To date, total worldwide sales are well over seven million units and as of July 2010 the digital tracks from the album in the US had sold more than 12.3 million units. The album garnered eight nominations at the 52nd Grammy Awards, and eventually won five Grammys, including Best Contemporary R&amp;B Album. It also won a 2009 Soul Train Award for Album of the Year. I Am... Sasha Fierce was promoted with live performances around the world including X Factor in the UK and the final episode of TRL in addition to the global, I Am... Tour.
Beyoncé Knowles  Radio (Beyoncé Knowles song)  Radio is a song by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles from her third studio album, I Am… Sasha Fierce (2008). The track charted on the Dutch Top 40 due to strong Digital Downloads. It was also used in different Dutch television commercials to promote local radio stations.
Beyoncé Knowles  BET Presents Beyoncé  BET Presents Beyoncé is a DVD released by the American R&amp;B singer-songwriter Beyoncé. The DVD was originally packaged with B'Day, exclusively at Wal-mart. The release features BET highlights, performance highlights, and music videos from throughout Knowles' career.
Beyoncé Knowles  Above and Beyoncé – Video Collection & Dance Mixes  Above and Beyoncé - Video Collection &amp; Dance Mixes is a remixes and video album, by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles. It was released on June 16, 2009. The DVD/CD is a Wal-Mart exclusive product in the United States. The remix disc of the album showcases Beyoncé's first full-length foray into the world of electronica, although the release of Green Light was accompanied with an EP of four critically acclaimed remixes by British dance act Freemasons. It has sold approximately 140,000 copies in the U.S.
Beyoncé Knowles  I Am... Yours: An Intimate Performance at Wynn Las Vegas  I Am... Yours: An Intimate Performance at Wynn Las Vegas is a live CD, DVD, and Blu-ray by American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles. It was shot at the Encore Theater, Las Vegas, on August 2, 2009 during a stint of her worldwide I Am… Tour. Footage from the release aired on ABC on November 26, 2009. The live album stayed for 8 weeks at the top of the United States Billboard Top Music Video chart, being certified 2× Platinum for shipment of over 200,000 copies.
Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé: Destined for Stardom  Beyoncé: Destined for Stardom is a compilation DVD about the American R&amp;B singer Beyoncé Knowles. It will be released via Stax Entertainment in the United Kingdom, on February 7, 2011.
Billie Myers  Growing, Pains  Growing, Pains is an album by Billie Myers, released in 1997.
Billie Myers  Vertigo (Billie Myers album)  Vertigo is an album by Billie Myers, released on June 6, 2000.
Billie Myers  Tea & Sympathy (Billie Myers album)  Tea &amp; Sympathy is the third album by Billie Myers, released on September 1, 2009.
Billy Crawford  It's Time (Billy Crawford album)  It's Time is the fourth studio album from Philippine Pop and R&amp;B singer, Billy Crawford. The album was released in year 2007. There are 12 known songs in this album.
Billy Crawford  Billy Crawford (album)  Billy Crawford is the first studio album from Philippine Pop and R&amp;B singer, Billy Crawford. The album was released in year 1998. There are 14 known songs on this album.
Billy Crawford  Ride (Billy Crawford album)  Ride is the second studio album from Philippine pop and R&amp;B singer Billy Crawford. Following the failure of the lead single When You're In Love With Someone in the United States, the album's release was cancelled. However, the album garnered a #1 international hit with Trackin, making its following release in international markets successful. Three additional singles followed, along with a special edition re-release in 2003.
Billy Crawford  Big City (Billy Crawford album)  Big City is the third studio album from Philippine Pop and R&amp;B singer, Billy Crawford. The album was released in year 2005. There are 15 known songs in this album.
Billy Crawford  Big City Tour Live  Big City Tour Live is the DVD release from Philippine Pop/R&amp;B singer, Billy Crawford. The album was released in France in 2005. Directed by Michel Jankielewicz and produced by Yves El-Baze. Distributed by UMG (2005) (worldwide) (DVD). The budget of this album was €150,000 (estimated).
Billy Crawford  Groove (Billy Crawford album)  Groove is the fifth studio album from Philippine Pop and R&amp;B singer, Billy Crawford. The album was released to iTunes on May 1st, 2009. It will be made available in physical form in Summer/Fall 2009. The new album is a re-working of classic hits from the 70’s to the 80’s.
Billy Joel  Piano Man (album)  Piano Man is a rock album by Billy Joel, released in 1973. Piano Man, Joel's second album and his first with Columbia Records, emerged out of legal difficulties with his former label, Family Productions, and became his breakthrough album. However, the Family Productions print logo was still used until 1986. The album was strongly influenced by Elton John's Tumbleweed Connection and has a western theme in much of the music and lyrics. Lyrically, this is most noticeable in The Ballad of Billy the Kid, musically in Captain Jack, Stop in Nevada, and instrumentally in Travelin' Prayer.  The single Piano Man, a fictionalized retelling of Joel's days as a lounge singer in Los Angeles
Billy Joel  The Nylon Curtain  The Nylon Curtain is the eighth studio album by Billy Joel. It was released by Columbia Records on September 23, 1982 and produced by Phil Ramone. The Nylon Curtain peaked at number seven in the Billboard album charts, with two million sales in the United States alone. It was one of the first albums to be digitally recorded, mixed and mastered. The album is perhaps best known for bringing global attention to the plight of Allentown, Pennsylvania. In the song Allentown
Billy Joel  Cold Spring Harbor (album)  Cold Spring Harbor was Billy Joel's first solo album, and was released in 1971. He had already released several albums as a member of the bands The Hassles (1966 to 1969) and Attila (1970). Cold Spring Harbor represented Joel's first solo effort. It was released by Family Productions, but through an error in the album's mastering, the songs were slightly too fast, up one half step, causing Joel's voice to sound unnaturally high. Artie Ripp, owner of Family Productions and hence the owner of the original master tapes, re-mixed and re-released an updated version of the album in 1983 on Columbia Records, without any involvement by Billy Joel. Ripp had originally signed the then-unknown 22-year old Joel to a 10-record contract. As a result he was able to continue collecting large royalties on sales of Joel's biggest hit records long after Joel's acrimonious departure from Family Productions, despite Joel's constant efforts to buy back his contract. Shortly after Joel released his tenth album, the last on which Ripp could collect royalties, Ripp re-released Cold Spring Harbor in order to earn more through royalties. While the 1983 version is at the correct speed, it is stripped of much of the original orchestration by Jimmie Haskell. Instead, Ripp added several new drum and drum machine tracks performed by Mike McGee, as well as a bit of synthesizers by Al Campbell, in an attempt to give the record a more updated feel. The engineer for the re-recording and re-mixing sessions was unhappy with the results and asked that his name not be included on the album (Ripp himself is given engineering credit). The album is named after a hamlet of the same name in the town of Huntington, NY, a seaside community near Joel's hometown. The lyrics of the song Tomorrow Is Today were derived from a note Joel had written when he tried to commit suicide by drinking furniture polish. He was found by his drummer and taken immediately to a hospital where his stomach was pumped.
Billy Joel  Streetlife Serenade  Streetlife Serenade is Billy Joel's third album, and his second with Columbia Records. Streetlife Serenade was released in 1974, after the hit songs Piano Man and Captain Jack from the album Piano Man
Billy Joel  Turnstiles  Turnstiles was the fourth album by Billy Joel, released in 1976. In part, the album was made to celebrate Joel's return to New York City after his sojourn in California. Three of the album's tracks reference New York: Summer, Highland Falls, New York State of Mind and Miami 2017 (Seen the Lights Go Out on Broadway). In addition, Joel begins the album with Say Goodbye to Hollywood, and also includes I've Loved These Days, a tongue-in-cheek expression of regret at leaving behind Hollywood's decadence.
Billy Joel  Glass Houses  Glass Houses is the seventh album by American singer-songwriter Billy Joel, released in 1980 (see 1980 in music
Billy Joel  The Bridge (Billy Joel album)  The Bridge is Billy Joel's 10th studio album released by Columbia Records in 1986 and it was produced
Billy Joel  An Innocent Man  An Innocent Man is the ninth album by American singer/songwriter Billy Joel, released in 1983. It became one of his best-charted albums since Glass Houses
Billy Joel  Storm Front (album)  Storm Front is the 11th studio album by Billy Joel. Released in 1989 (see 1989 in music
Billy Joel  River of Dreams  River of Dreams is the 12th studio album by Billy Joel, released in 1993. This is the last pop album made by Joel, and presented a much more serious tone as a whole, dealing with issues such as trust and long-lasting love; it was rumored that the themes of trust and betrayal, particularly certain lyrics from the songs All About Soul and The Great Wall of China, stem from Joel's legal disputes with his former manager and ex-brother-in-law, Frank Weber, who reportedly embezzled from Joel and used dubious accounting practices to cover it up. The album cover was a painting by Joel's then-wife, Christie Brinkley. In 1993, Rolling Stone Magazine gave her the Top Picks award for The Best Album Cover of the Year.
Billy Joel  The Stranger (album)  The Stranger is the fifth studio album by musician Billy Joel, released in 1977 (see 1977 in music
Billy Joel  52nd Street (album)  52nd Street is the sixth studio album by Billy Joel, released in 1978. It was also the first of many Joel albums to top the Billboard charts, along with his third and fourth Grammy win.. 52nd Street also became, in 1982, the first album to be released on compact disc by Sony Music Entertainment
Billy Joel  Songs in the Attic  Songs in the Attic is the first live album by Billy Joel, released in 1981. At the time of its release, it was unique as being the first widely available appearance of music from his first album, Cold Spring Harbor from 1971. This album was released in 1981 to introduce Billy Joel's early work to fans who had come to know him after The Stranger, according to liner notes written by Joel. In his earlier work, most of the instruments were played by session musicians, but by the late 1970s, Joel had a fairly consistent touring group, and so wanted to showcase the songs with this band: ... 'Captain Jack' plays with much more power and conviction when a roaring Philadelphia audience sets off a kind of internal explosion and the adrenaline screams through our veins...  wrote Joel. Two songs from the album, Say Goodbye to Hollywood and She's Got a Way, were released as singles, both making the top 25.
Billy Joel  Концерт  Концерт, commonly corrupted to Kohuept, is the second live album by Billy Joel, released in 1987. The album was recorded during the Soviet leg of Joel's 1987 The Bridge tour. Joel's cover of The Beatles' Back in the U.S.S.R.  became the first single released by Joel that was written by someone other than himself. It ended his record-setting streak of 39 Billboard Top 40 singles, from the start of a career, written by the artist who performed it.
Billy Joel  2000 Years: The Millennium Concert  2000 Years: The Millennium Concert is a two-disc set and the third live album by Billy Joel, released in 2000. The album was recorded on New Year's Eve 1999 at Madison Square Garden in New York City, though some alterations were made before its release: some songs are not the same version featured in the original concert (like Big Shot), others were edited in studio (some YouTube videos of Scenes From An Italian Restaurant show Billy singing offkey, while he sings perfectly on the album). 2000 Years: The Millennium Concert also marked the first time several songs had to be transposed to lower keys to accommodate Joel's deepening voice (I Go To Extremes, I've Loved These Days, Goodnight Saigon and Only The Good Die Young are in the key of B♭ vs. C). Some versions of the album that were released out of the United States are basically a compilation of moments from the concert with two bonus tracks: This Is The Time (live from the concert) and Just The Way You Are (live from the concert).
Billy Joel  Fantasies & Delusions  Fantasies &amp; Delusions is the first album of Billy Joel's classical compositions, released in 2001.. The pieces were performed by Richard Joo
Billy Joel  The Essential Billy Joel  The Essential Billy Joel is a Sony music compilation of songs by American singer/songwriter Billy Joel. It was released on October 2, 2001, and has been certified Double Platinum by the RIAA. In conjunction with the release of the album, The Essential Video Collection was released, comprising Joel's most popular music videos. On August 26, 2008, The Essential 3.0 was released containing a third disc with seven additional tracks.
Billy Joel  Greatest Hits (Billy Joel albums)  Greatest Hits is a collection released in two sets, 12 years apart. The first set, consisting of two discs, titled Volume I and Volume II, was released in 1985. The second, single disc titled Volume III was released in 1997. All songs but the last three on Volume III, To Make You Feel My Love, Hey Girl and Light As The Breeze were written by Joel. You're Only Human (Second Wind) and The Night is Still Young are only available on the first set. The other songs appear mostly in order of their release dates and generally represent Joel's most successful singles. Greatest Hits - Volume I &amp; Volume II has been certified double diamond by the RIAA, selling over 10.5 million copies (21 million units) and is tied with Garth Brooks' Double Live for sixth best selling album of all time in the U.S.
Billy Joel  My Lives  My Lives is a box set compilation of demos, outtakes, B-sides, soundtrack cuts, live recordings and album cuts by American singer/songwriter Billy Joel. It was released on November 22, 2005. The album name is derivative of the Billy Joel song My Life.  The liner notes were written by long time Rolling Stone magazine contributor Anthony DeCurtis
Billy Joel  Scenes from an Italian Restaurant  Scenes from an Italian Restaurant is a song from Billy Joel's 1977 album The Stranger. Although never released as a single, it has become one of Joel's most celebrated compositions among fans, appearing on most of his compilation albums. The song is effectively a medley of three individual songs which are fused together. In an interview, Joel cites the second side of The Beatles album Abbey Road as one of the main influences behind it. The song starts with a gentle melodic piano ballad, which sets the scene of two old classmates in an Italian restaurant, moving on to a triumphant and uptempo jazz-influenced piece in the middle, with a clarinet and saxophone solo, which then segues into a rock and roll section (which Joel refers to as The Ballad of Brenda and Eddie). On May 6 1977, before the song's official release, Joel premiered the song at Long Island University C.W. Post Campus which is located on Long Island, New York. He dedicated the song to Christiano's restaurant which is located in Syosset, New York. At 7 minutes and 37 seconds, it is the longest of Joel's studio cuts. After years of speculation about which restaurant exactly inspired the song, Joel stated on The Stranger 30th anniversary edition DVD interview, that the song was written about a restaurant called Fontana di Trevi, which was located across from Carnegie Hall in Manhattan. While Joel had a series of concerts there in June 1977, he frequented the restaurant. He does also state that it was a combination of places, but Fontana di Trevi was on his mind while he was writing the song. In the Broadway production Movin' Out, the lyrics are changed slightly to have the Brenda and Eddie story take place in 1965 instead of 1975.
Billy Joel  12 Gardens Live  12 Gardens Live is a Sony music compilation of songs performed by American singer/songwriter Billy Joel during a record run of twelve sold-out concerts at Madison Square Garden in New York City in early 2006. It was released on June 13, 2006. Although some of the singer's best known hits are on the album, many of them are transposed into a different key (often lower) to accommodate Joel's deepening voice.
Billy Joel  Piano Man: The Very Best of Billy Joel  Piano Man: The Very Best of Billy Joel is a greatest hits album, by Billy Joel, originally released on 15 November 2004 on its own, but the album was re-released on 10 July 2006, with a DVD also in the package. The CD contains 18 of his biggest hits, whilst the DVD contains 10 videos (some of which are live).
Billy Joel  Big Man on Mulberry Street  Big Man on Mulberry Street is a jazz influenced song by Billy Joel from the 1986 album The Bridge (1986). An extended version of the song was used on a season three episode of Moonlighting. The episode was titled Big Man On Mulberry Street. In a dream sequence, Maddie Hayes envisions David Addison with his ex-wife. An extra horn solo was added to the song.
Billy Joel  Captain Jack (song)  Captain Jack is a song by Billy Joel featured on his 1973 album Piano Man with a live version being placed on his album Songs in the Attic in 1981. Joel originally wrote the song, an anti-drug song, in 1971, while observing some people from his window obtaining drugs from a dealer named Captain Jack. Arguably, it is the most important of his early compositions because his performance of the song at a live radio concert on WMMR in Philadelphia, and the subsequent airplay it received, brought him to the attention of major record labels, including Columbia, with which he would sign a recording contract in 1973. Reception for the song was very positive. The song entered the news again during Hillary Clinton's campaign for US Senate in New York, when the song was mistakenly played during a rally, instead of New York State of Mind.
Billy Joel  The Ballad of Billy the Kid  The Ballad of Billy the Kid is a Billy Joel song from the album Piano Man. It is a historically inaccurate story of Billy The Kid. In the song, Billy the Kid, who grew up in Wheeling, West Virginia, was famous throughout the West during his lifetime as a bank robber. However, he never robbed a bank and he was little known in his own lifetime but was catapulted into legend in the year after his death when his killer, Sheriff Pat Garrett, published a wildly sensationalistic biography of the outlaw called The Authentic Life of Billy, the Kid. Beginning with Garrett's account, Billy the Kid grew into a symbolic figure of the American Old West. The song also says that Billy the Kid was captured and hanged, with many people attending the hanging. In reality, however, he was shot and killed by Pat Garrett. Joel has stated in interviews and concerts that he wrote the song when he was traveling west from New York to California for the first time. He was inspired to write a western song. One inspiration for the song was the American composer, Aaron Copland (also admitted by Joel in interviews), which is apparent in both the classical-style music within the song and the name of the song itself. In some live versions, Joel plays the song's long opening and says, Every verse in this song is a lie, and, You have to imagine it's a Western movie, with the credits rolling across the screen. Randolph Scott. Lee Van Cleef. Clint Eastwood.  The Billy from Oyster Bay was not Joel, but rather a bartender who worked there. By the way, Billy in this case is not me, myself and I. He still tends bar in Oyster Bay. The song was featured on the January 31, 2010 episode of Family Guy entitled Dial Meg for Murder.
Billy Joel  Miami 2017 (Seen the Lights Go Out on Broadway)  Miami 2017 (Seen the Lights Go Out on Broadway) is a song written by Billy Joel which appeared as the final song on the album Turnstiles in 1976. A live version would also be released as the first track on his 1981 collection of live performances of lesser-known songs, called Songs in the Attic.
Billy Joel  Root Beer Rag  Root Beer Rag is a song from Billy Joel's 1974 album Streetlife Serenade. An instrumental track in a very fast ragtime style, it was later released as the B-side of the Honesty single, and a live version was included with the DVD that was part of the 30th anniversary re-release of The Stranger. Numerous cover versions of the song exist, notably by Ten Grands VIII and by Wise Guys. The original Billy Joel version was also used as the theme music to a 1980s sports program in New Zealand broadcast by TV One. It was also used in the 1980s on Radio Bayern 3 in Germany for the Saturday and Sunday late morning show called Musikbox. The song is in C major and makes up one of three studio instrumentals that he has released. In the liner notes, unlike other songs on the album, which under the title tells about the inspiration or story behind each song, on this song Joel notes simply I love root beer. He goes on to say:
Billy Joel  Prelude/Angry Young Man  Prelude/Angry Young Man is a song written by Billy Joel which appeared as the sixth song on the album Turnstiles in 1976. Live versions have been released as the second track of KOHЦEPT, the 11th track of the first disc of 2000 Years: The Millennium Concert, and the opening track on the first disc of 12 Gardens Live. It is also included in the Broadway show Movin' Out. The instrumental Prelude lasts roughly a minute and forty-five seconds, starting with a rapid-fire piano riff on the middle-C piano key, joined by various instruments, swinging through styles such an Aaron Copland-styled ballad to funk to a Southwestern beat. It is then followed by Angry Young Man, which paints a slightly sardonic picture of youthful, militant rebellion that is unflagging, trying to fight life's ills despite constant failure (He refuses to bend, he refuses to crawl / And he's always at home with his back to the wall / And he's proud of his scars and the battles he's lost / And he struggles and bleeds as he hangs on his cross / And he likes to be known as the angry young man) The song contrasts the angry youth with the protagonist's mature, world-weary outlook, which could possibly be seen as either be the same angry young man when he is older or somebody who was once felt as the angry young man currently does (I believe I've passed the age of consciousness and righteous rage / I found that just surviving was a noble fight / I once believed in causes too / I had my pointless point of view / And life went on no matter who was wrong or right. ) Despite never having been released as a single, Prelude/Angry Young Man has become a popular song among fans as well as a staple of live shows. Prelude was used as an opening theme for the German TV talk show Live (1988-1996).
Billy Joel  Tomorrow Is Today (song)  Tomorrow Is Today is a song from Billy Joel's 1971 debut album Cold Spring Harbor. The despondent lyrics express the seemingly immutable repetition of the dreary present. They are based on a suicide note Joel wrote in 1970 when he tried to kill himself by drinking furniture polish.
Billy Joel  The Ultimate Collection (Billy Joel album)  The Ultimate Collection is a double-disc compilation album by American singer-songwriter Billy Joel. It was first released by Sony Music Entertainment Japan in December 2000, and subsequently issued in the most of European and Oceanian countries with slightly different track listings (replacing Japanese top-3 charting hit The Stranger with live version of You're My Home). This career-spanning compilation features some of Joel's early notable compositions and hit singles which were disregarded on his Greatest Hits series, although several fan favotites like Scenes from an Italian Restaurant and Big Shot were excluded alternatively. It became a smash hit worldwide, entering top-5 on the charts in several countries including United Kingdom. The Ultimate Collection was not issued in the United States, because Legacy Recordings released another similar compilation The Essential in October 2001.
Billy Joel  Souvenir: The Ultimate Collection  Souvenir: The Ultimate Collection is a 1989 box set by Billy Joel, spanning almost his entire musical career. The whole set is five discs. Disc one is a collection of live songs while discs two, three, and four are all studio songs (except for Say Goodbye to Hollywood and She's Got a Way, which are both from the 1981 live album Songs in the Attic). The songs on disc two and three are all of the songs from Joel's very popular Greatest Hits, Volume I and II album released in 1985. The track listing is slightly different, however. Honesty is added in between Big Shot and You May Be Right, and Don't Ask Me Why is excluded from the collection. Disc four is his 1989 album Storm Front. The fifth and final disc is a collection of interviews and the song Souvenir from his 1974 album Streetlife Serenade, the song which the set is named after. Track Listing: Disc One: Shout [Live at Yankee Stadium] Storm Front [Live at Yankee Stadium] New York State of Mind [Live at Yankee Stadium] I Go to Extremes [Live at Yankee Stadium] Piano Man [Live at Yankee Stadium] Disc Two: Piano Man Captain Jack The Entertainer Say Goodbye to Hollywood New York State of Mind The Stranger Scenes from an Italian Restaurant Just the Way You Are Movin' Out (Anthony's Song) Only the Good Die Young She's Always a Woman Disc Three: My Life Big Shot Honesty You May Be Right It's Still Rock &amp; Roll to Me She's Got a Way Pressure Allentown Goodnight Saigon Tell Her About It Uptown Girl The Longest Time You're Only Human (Second Wind) The Night Is Still Young Disc Four: That's Not Her Style We Didn't Start the Fire The Downeaster 'Alexa' I Go to Extremes Shameless Storm Front Leningrad State of Grace When in Rome And So It Goes Disc Five: Introduction Billy Joel Interview 1 Billy Joel Interview 2 Billy Joel Interview 3 Souvenir
Boy George  Cheapness and Beauty  Cheapness and Beauty is a 1995 album by Boy George. The album peaked at number 44 in the UK.
Boy George  High Hat  High Hat is an album compiling tracks from Boy George's second and third UK and Europe
Boy George  U Can Never B2 Straight  U Can Never B2 Straight is a 2002 acoustic album by 80s pop superstar Boy George. The album includes acoustic songs from George's London play Taboo, as well as other songs from other solo albums, such as Cheapness and Beauty. In total there are 16 songs (15 plus 1 ghost track, of which 8—exactly half—are previously unreleased), and each is dedicated either to someone in particular (most of them) or in general, in the booklet credits. Three songs are dedicated to important ex-boyfriend Michael Dunne (If I Could Fly, Losing Control and The Deal), whereas Unfinished Business is for Kirk Brandon (who took George to court for this song, but lost). Boy George has received fantastic reviews for the album. It is his best received record but the lowest selling of his career. The hidden track Out Of Fashion was taken out as a single in a remixed form as a collaboration with dance duo Hi-Gate; a version of the song is also featured on the Taboo musical soundtrack. Another track which was released as video-only was the opener Ich Bin Kunst, a song dealing with performance artist Leigh Bowery, a great friend of Boy George's, now dead, whose character George took on in his musical, instead of playing himself. An example of the fantastics reviews can be found on allmusic. com, where it got 4.5 stars out of 5. It also got four stars from Q magazine. The album also includes all the acoustic ballads originally on Cheapness and Beauty, including the single Il Adore, as well as another single from that album, Same Thing In Reverse, in an acoustic version which is different from the dance remix which reached the highest position on Billboard Dance Chart in the U.S.A.. Same Thing In Reverse is dedicated in the booklet credits to 'Eminem and all scared, pretty homosexuals'... The song Julian, one of the new songs, is also featured on the next EP Straight, sold together with Boy's new book of the same name, in 2005. Finally, U Can Never B2 Straight also contains the following three tracks: She Was Never He, taken from the 1999 fan-requested compilation The Unrecoupable One Man Bandit; Fat Cat, originally on Culture Club's reunion album called Don't Mind If I Do and released in 1999; and the popular Krishna-inspired Bow Down Mister, which gave the artist one of his last UK chart success after splitting from the band.
Boy George  Sold (album)  Sold is the debut solo album by British pop rock / soul singer Boy George, released in 1987, for Virgin Music label, including the following hit singles, Everything I Own
Boy George  The Twin EP  The Twin EP is Boy George’s fourth EP, promoted in late 2003 and early 2004, under the same pseudonym of The Twin. The project includes vocalist and DJ Boy George himself and dance producer Kinky Roland, who helped George write and produce many of his most recent tracks, either as a solo singer for his albums, and as an independent DJ for his numerous mix compilations. Both George and Roland explain what is The Twin. The former, on his MySpace page, defines The Twin as his alter ago, after all I am a Gemini, and I always joke that you’re never alone with a Gemini, not even when you’re on your own. The latter, in an interview for The Devil in Sister George Homepage, when asked if The Twin is George and Kinky Roland or is the Twin: George and his alter Ego featuring the Replicant or is The Twin George and Leigh Bowery or what?, answers instead that The Twin is Boy George's project I'm doing writing and producing for his new alter ego. George points to David Bowie, along with Gene Pitney, as the most important early influences for The Twin project. As regards The Twin, actually, the new character was first born, as it seems, after George played the role of the Australian performance artist and designer Leigh Bowery, in the musical Taboo, co-written by Boy George himself, who also composed both soundtrack albums for the London and Broadway shows. The singer, turned into an actor, has revealed that it was easier for him to play someone else’s role instead of his own (who was also in the show among the main characters), and that he is not new to working under the guise of some pseudonym, as he already did, most notably, with the band Jesus Loves You or under the pseudonym Angela Dust as producer and composer =: not being exposed as Boy George, too famous a name to dangerously depart from the established path, allowed him much more experimentation (the same happened when leaving his former group, Culture Club, who obliged him to always stick to the same vocal style), at the same time permitting him to possibly hide under some other label, in case of commercial and critical failure (which never happened, by the way, on such a huge scale as not to come out in the open). As concerns The Twin’s extreme image (Bowery was famous for creating gravity-defying dresses, as well as outrageous make-up and exaggeratedly gorgeous looks), Boy George admits that he had been almost dressing down, following his personal standards, of course, for a few years, when he suddenly found himself thrown into Leigh’s extraordinary looks and make-up, one of the most famous of which consisted in latex drips over his head, a green tutu and a specially designed corset so as to make him look as he had a prosperous real breast: it was this experience that reminided him that he was ultimately a freak, pushing him to create The Twin project, where the extreme looks are matched by a hard pumping music, mostly consisting in electronica beats, strong dance rhythms and outrageous lyrics. Though The Twin never attained commercial success, even because most of the singles and the one album, Yum Yum, released so far, didn’t get airplay, and were only available for a short time and only in limited editions, his personal MySpace page and YouTube offer a whole lot of possibilities to listen and watch the project in live shows, made unique by the acid house sound and the gorgeous look. The most popular track on The Twin EP is the opener called Nothing, of which many versions and remixes exist, as well as many promotional live videos.
Brian Littrell  Welcome Home (Brian Littrell album)  Welcome Home is the debut solo album by Backstreet Boys member Brian Littrell. The album was released on the Reunion Records
Britney Spears  ...Baby One More Time  ... Baby One More Time is the debut album by American pop singer Britney Spears. The album was released on January 12, 1999 by Jive Records and became a worldwide commercial success, reaching the top five in nineteen countries, and number one in fifteen, including the U. S Billboard 200. The album and its singles helped propel Spears into mainstream popularity. With the release of the lead single ... Baby One More Time, Spears became a pop phenomenon; the single peaked at number one in the Billboard Hot 100, a feat Spears would not repeat for another ten years, in October 2008, when her single Womanizer peaked at number one on the chart. Every single released in the United Kingdom charted within the top-five position in the UK Singles Chart and the top-three position in the Eurochart Hot 100. The album's lyrics, and its music videos maintained the typical virgin image of the late 1990s teen pop revival for Spears. The album is certified 14× Platinum by the RIAA. ... Baby One More Time has sold more than 37 million copies worldwide, becoming one of the most successful albums of all time and is Spears' most successful and best selling album to date.
Britney Spears  Britney (album)  Britney is the third studio album by American pop singer Britney Spears. The album was released in November 6, 2001 by Jive Records. Britney is notable for Spears' increasingly prominent role in the production, and being the transition album away from her bubblegum pop sound and teen pop image from her previous two albums, and leaned increasingly toward more R&amp;B, Hip hop, and sexual influences. Although the album's singles were slightly less successful than her album's previews singles, Spears assumed some creative control by co-writing five of the album's tracks. The uneasy transactional music styles for the album Britney garned it at the number one position in the Billboard 200, in which gave the Jive label its eleventh chart-topping album. The album became 2001's most successful debut by a female or female group artist, trumping Destiny's Child's Survivor and Janet Jackson's All for You. The album's success made her the first female artist in music history to have her first three studio albums to debut at the number one spot. This record however would later be broken by Spears herself when her 4th studio album In the Zone charted in the same position. It was nominated for two Grammy awards, Pop Vocal Album and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for Overprotected. To date, Britney has sold over 12 million copies worldwide.
Britney Spears  In the Zone  In the Zone is the fourth studio album by American pop singer Britney Spears. It was released worldwide in November 16, 2003, by Jive Records; the album was released two days later in the United States. Nielsen SoundScan recorded 609,000 copies of the set purchased in its opening week in the U. S alone. In the Zone debuted at number-one on the Billboard 200 albums chart, breaking her own previous record and making Spears the first female in Nielsen SoundScan history to have her first four studio albums open at number-one position in the country. Spears took more control of the album as she co-wrote 8 of the 12 songs on the album. In the Zone had more success with singles than its predecessor on the Billboard Hot 100 as Toxic became her highest charting single in over 4 years where it peaked within the top 10. Everytime managed to peak within the top 20, while Me Against the Music charted within the top 40, and Outrageous reached the top 80 without a music video being released. The album's first 3 singles all peaked at the number-one position in Australia. The album received generally favorable review, according to Metacritic. In the Zone was announced the 8th best selling album worldwide of 2003 with less than 2 months release. It has sold over 10 million copies worldwide since its release.
Britney Spears  Greatest Hits: My Prerogative  Greatest Hits: My Prerogative is the first greatest hits album from American singer Britney Spears, released on November 1, 2004 by Jive Records. The compilation was released in two different formats, a standard edition and a limited edition containing a bonus disc with remixes. A compilation DVD of the same name was released to accompany the audio versions. The album includes three new tracks, a cover of Bobby Brown's My Prerogative, Do Somethin' and I've Just Begun (Having My Fun), which was released digitally in August 2004. Critics gave mixed reviews to Greatest Hits: My Prerogative. Some felt that it was an accurate portrayal of Spears as the defining figure of American pop culture, while others stated that she did not have enough material for a compilation and also deemed it as premature. Greatest Hits: My Prerogative debuted at the top of the charts in Ireland and Japan, and the top ten in other fourteen countries, including Australia, Canada, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. Greatest Hits: My Prerogative has sold 5 million copies worldwide. The title track was released as the first single from the album. It went on to peak at number one in Finland, Ireland, Italy and Norway, and reach the top ten in another fourteen countries. Do Somethin' was released as the second single from the album, becoming a moderate commercial success.
Britney Spears  Anticipating  Anticipating is a song by American recording artist Britney Spears. It was released in France as a promotional single from her third studio album Britney. It was written by Spears while produced by Brian Kierulf and Josh Schwartz as a throwback to the disco era. Lyrically, it talks about friendship and camaradie between women. It was met with critical praise, with reviewers complimenting its empowering lyrics and comparing it to 1980's compositions of Madonna and Rick Astley. It achieved minor commercial success, peaking at number thirty-eight. Anticipating was performed in the Dream Within a Dream Tour (2001-2002), where Spears wore a patched denim skirt and danced in front of giant crayon drawings. The music video consisted of the performance from Live from Las Vegas.
Britney Spears  Greatest Hits: My Prerogative (video)  Greatest Hits: My Prerogative is a greatest videos DVD compilation by singer Britney Spears. Released by Jive Records on November 9, 2004, it accompanied the greatest hits of the same name. The collection contained all of Spears's music videos from 1998 to 2004, including unreleased material from the shoot of Outrageous. It also contained alternate versions of the videos with never before seen footage. The DVD received positive reviews from critics, who complimented the quality of the audio and the image and also deemed Spears as the ultimate video performer. Greatest Hits: My Prerogative debuted at the top of the DVD charts in Australia, number two in Hungary and number nine on Billboard's Top Music Videos. It was also certified two-times platinum in countries such as Argentina, Australia and the United States.
Britney Spears  Time Out with Britney Spears  Time Out with Britney Spears is the first home video release from the pop singer Britney Spears, shot and released on VHS in 1999 and later re-issued on DVD alongside Spears' second home video release Live and More! on February 13, 2001.
Britney Spears  B in the Mix: The Remixes  B in the Mix: The Remixes is a remix album from Britney Spears, released on November 22, 2005 by Jive Records. The album consists of eleven remixes of seven of Spears' singles and three tracks from her 2003 studio album In the Zone, by DJs such as Peter Rauhofer and Stuart Price. The music was influenced by various genres of electronic music, such as ambient and techno. B in the Mix: The Remixes also included one new song, And Then We Kiss. Critics gave mixed reviews to the album. Some reviewers called B in the Mix: The Remixes a good remix compilation, while others argued that the album was conceived as a product and also criticized what they perceived as weak vocals. B in the Mix: The Remixes was commercially unsuccessful, charting only at number ninety-nine in Belgium and at number one hundred thirty-four in the United States. It received minimal promotion by Spears' standards. And Then We Kiss was released as a promotional single from the album.
Britney Spears  Live and More!  Live and More! is a the second home video released by pop singer Britney Spears, released on VHS on November 21, 2000 and later re-issued on DVD alongside Spears' first home video release, Time Out with Britney Spears on February 13, 2001. This video tracks Britney Spears on her much-publicized visit to Hawaii for her Crazy 2K Tour
Britney Spears  In the Zone (video)  In the Zone is Britney Spears' fifth DVD collection, which was released on April 6, 2004. The performances in the DVD were dubbed by the recordings featured in the album.
Britney Spears  Live from Las Vegas  Live from Las Vegas is the fourth DVD collection from pop music singer Britney Spears, released on January 22, 2002. Recorded during Spears' 2001-2002 tour Dream Within a Dream Tour at MGM Grand Garden Arena in a special Las Vegas concert originally broadcast on HBO
Britney Spears  Britney: The Videos  Britney: The Videos is an official DVD/home video released by pop music singer Britney Spears on November 20, 2001. It includes three music videos (to I'm a Slave 4 U, Don't Let Me Be the Last to Know, and I'm Not a Girl, Not Yet a Woman), combined with behind-the-scenes footage of shoots for her film debut Crossroads and her Vogue cover, a Crossroads outtakes music video to Overprotected, her Joy of Pepsi commercial, and the teaser for HBO's Britney Spears: Live from Las Vegas TV program. The performance of I'm a Slave 4 U at the MTV Video Music Awards
Britney Spears  Blackout (Britney Spears album)  Blackout is the fifth studio album by American pop singer Britney Spears, released by Jive Records on October 27, 2007. Spears began working on this album as early as February 2006, exploring into electropop, synthpop and techno. The album has also a more R&amp;B/urban sound and recording with new producers such as Danja. Blackout was her first studio album in four years since 2003's In the Zone and is the first time Spears is the executive producer of one of her albums. The album's title refers to blacking out negativity and embracing life fully. The songs on the album are thematically focused on sex, love and Spears' relationship–struggle with the media. Blackout debuted at number two on the Billboard 200, becoming her first and so far only studio album not to debut at number one due to a last-minute rules change by the Billboard music association. According to the IFPI, the album was 32nd in terms of units shipped by the end of 2007. The album's first single, Gimme More, peaked at number one in the Canadian Hot 100 and became a top five hit in twelve countries. The second single, Piece of Me, reached number one in Ireland. The final single, Break the Ice, reached number one in the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play, making all the singles of the album go to the top position of at least a chart. All three songs frequently appeared on the lists that included the best records of the year. Even though initial critical response was mixed to positive, the album later won high critical acclaim and appeared on many lists that included the decade's best albums. The album was named the 5th Best Pop Album of the Decade by The Times, the 7th-best album of the decade on the Rolling Stones The Decade-End Readers’ Poll, and the 3rd Best Album of the decade on the Billboard Readers Poll, and won Album of the Year at the MTV Europe Music Awards 2008. To date, the album has sold over 3.1 million copies worldwide.
Britney Spears  My Only Wish (This Year)  My Only Wish (This Year) is a teen pop Christmas song by American recording artist Britney Spears. The song was written by Brian Kierulf and Josh Schwartz and released originally in the Christmas compilation album Platinum Christmas. In the song's lyrics, Spears asks Santa Claus to find her a lover during the holidays. The track received generally mixed reviews by critics. In December 2008, the song charted at number thirty-four in Denmark due to digital downloads.
Britney Spears  Circus (Britney Spears album)  Circus is the sixth studio album by American pop singer Britney Spears. It was released on December 2nd, 2008 by Jive Records. Spears started working on the album earlier that year with a range of new producers, as well as with Bloodshy &amp; Avant and Danja, combining the electropop and urban sounds from her previous album Blackout with producers of her first early pop hits such as Max Martin. The album was released on Spears' birthday. The album received mostly positive reviews from music critics. After its release, the album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, making Spears the youngest female artist in history to have five albums debut at number one, thus earning a place in the Guinness Book of World Records. The album's first single, Womanizer, was an international hit, reaching the top of the charts in over twenty countries worldwide, including the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. The second single, Circus, debuted at number three in the USA and reached top ten positions in 17 countries worldwide. The single If U Seek Amy managed to reach top 20 on the Billboard Hot 100. Spears promoted the album with a series of live performances, including her first world tour in five years, The Circus Starring Britney Spears. The first single, Womanizer, also received a Grammy nomination for Best Dance Recording. According to TPI Magazine, as of August 2009, the album has sold 5.5 million copies worldwide. The all digital tracks singles and album from the album in the U.S. have sold a combined total of 7,721,000 units as of July, 2010.
Britney Spears  Oops!... I Did It Again  Oops!... I Did It Again is the second studio album by American pop singer Britney Spears. The album was released on May 16, 2000 by Jive Records, and opened at number one spot in the U. S, after selling over 1,319,193 units during its first week of sales. The album dominated the U.S. retail markets sales in May 16, where it sold over 500,000 copies in its first day in stores as according to a survey of retail outlets. This feat broke the previous SoundScan record for the highest album sales in its debut week by any solo artist, thus announcing Spears as the fastest selling female artist in the country. The album also contains Britney's first writing credit on one of her albums, for Dear Diary. This was her second (and latest) album to received a diamond certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The album produced three hit singles: her third UK number-one single Oops!... I Did It Again, Lucky and Stronger. The album has sold over 20 million copies worldwide to date.
Britney Spears  The Singles Collection (Britney Spears album)  The Singles Collection is the second greatest hits album from American singer Britney Spears, released in commemoration of her ten year anniversary with her record company Jive Records. The compilation was released in many different formats, including a one disc edition, a CD+DVD edition and a boxset. The latter two also included a DVD with Spears's music videos. The album included one new track, 3, produced by Max Martin and Shellback. The Singles Collection was praised by contemporary critics, who noted Spears's impact and influence in pop music during her first decade within the music industry. The album entered the top forty in Australia, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand and the United States as well as in a number of European countries. 3 was released as the lead single from the album. In the United States, it debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming the first song in three years to do so.
Carly Smithson  Ultimate High  Ultimate High is the debut album of Irish-born singer Carly Smithson, released under her maiden name Carly Hennessy in 2001 by MCA Records. It failed to find an audience despite getting good reviews and MCA Records spending over $2 million on the production and promotion of the album, and became a textbook example for the economics of today's music industry. The song Just Missed the Train was later covered by American Idol season 1 winner Kelly Clarkson in her debut album Thankful. Oddly enough, Hennessy later auditioned for American Idol season 7 under her husband's last name Smithson, finishing in 6th place. Two singles were released off the album: I'm Gonna Blow Your Mind and Beautiful You.
Céline Dion  One Heart  One Heart is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 24, 2003. It's her 10th English album and 29th in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  One Heart  One Heart is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 24, 2003. It's her 10th English album and 29th in total.
Céline Dion  A New Day Has Come  A New Day Has Come is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, which marked her return after two-year hiatus to have a child. It was released on March 22, 2002. A New Day Has Come is Dion's 9th English album and 28th in total. The limited edition, containing bonus DVD with two audio and two video tracks, was released in November 2002. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  A New Day Has Come  A New Day Has Come is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, which marked her return after two-year hiatus to have a child. It was released on March 22, 2002. A New Day Has Come is Dion's 9th English album and 28th in total. The limited edition, containing bonus DVD with two audio and two video tracks, was released in November 2002. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Céline Dion  A New Day... Live in Las Vegas  A New Day... Live in Las Vegas is Céline Dion's first English live album, released on June 14, 2004. It's her 11th English longplay and 31st in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  A New Day... Live in Las Vegas  A New Day... Live in Las Vegas is Céline Dion's first English live album, released on June 14, 2004. It's her 11th English longplay and 31st in total.
Céline Dion  All the Way... A Decade of Song  All the Way… A Decade of Song is the first English greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 12, 1999. It is her 7th English album and 26th in total. All the Way... A Decade of Song was extremely successful, selling over 20 million copies worldwide. According to Billboard, it became the 26th best-selling album of the decade in the United States.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  All the Way... A Decade of Song  All the Way… A Decade of Song is the first English greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 12, 1999. It is her 7th English album and 26th in total. All the Way... A Decade of Song was extremely successful, selling over 20 million copies worldwide. According to Billboard, it became the 26th best-selling album of the decade in the United States.
Céline Dion  Let's Talk About Love  Let's Talk About Love is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 18, 1997. It is her fifth English-language album and twenty-third in total. Let's Talk About Love remains one of the best-selling albums in history with over 31 million copies sold worldwide. It includes the Grammy and Academy Award winning song, My Heart Will Go On, which also served as the theme song to the 1997 blockbuster motion picture, Titanic. The song reached number-one across the world, and became the most successful song of Dion's career. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3 CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was re-packaged and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Let's Talk About Love  Let's Talk About Love is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 18, 1997. It is her fifth English-language album and twenty-third in total. Let's Talk About Love remains one of the best-selling albums in history with over 31 million copies sold worldwide. It includes the Grammy and Academy Award winning song, My Heart Will Go On, which also served as the theme song to the 1997 blockbuster motion picture, Titanic. The song reached number-one across the world, and became the most successful song of Dion's career. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3 CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was re-packaged and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Céline Dion  The Colour of My Love  The Colour of My Love is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 9, 1993. It is her third English-language album and eighteenth overall. It features three number 1 singles: The Power of Love, Think Twice and To Love You More.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  The Colour of My Love  The Colour of My Love is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 9, 1993. It is her third English-language album and eighteenth overall. It features three number 1 singles: The Power of Love, Think Twice and To Love You More.
Céline Dion  Miracle (Celine Dion album)  Miracle is a concept album credited to Canadian singer Céline Dion and Australian photographer Anne Geddes, released on October 11, 2004. It's Dion's 12th English album and 32nd in total. According to Billboard, Miracle is the 11th Best Selling Kids Album of the 2000s.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Miracle (Celine Dion album)  Miracle is a concept album credited to Canadian singer Céline Dion and Australian photographer Anne Geddes, released on October 11, 2004. It's Dion's 12th English album and 32nd in total. According to Billboard, Miracle is the 11th Best Selling Kids Album of the 2000s.
Céline Dion  The Collector's Series, Volume One  The Collector's Series, Volume One is a compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 20, 2000. It's her 8th English album and 27th in total. The album was re-named Tout en amour (meaning All in Love) in France.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  The Collector's Series, Volume One  The Collector's Series, Volume One is a compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 20, 2000. It's her 8th English album and 27th in total. The album was re-named Tout en amour (meaning All in Love) in France.
Céline Dion  1 fille & 4 types  1 fille &amp; 4 types (meaning 1 Girl &amp; 4 Guys) is a French-language album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 13, 2003. It's her 21st French album and 30th in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  1 fille & 4 types  1 fille &amp; 4 types (meaning 1 Girl &amp; 4 Guys) is a French-language album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 13, 2003. It's her 21st French album and 30th in total.
Céline Dion  Falling into You  Falling into You is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 8, 1996. It is her fourth English-language album and twenty-first overall. Falling into You was well received by critics and fans, winning two Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Album and Album of the Year in 1997, and becoming one of the best-selling albums in history, with sales of over 32 million copies worldwide. It was listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers in their Definitive 200 Albums of All Time as the 97th most influential and popular album in history. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Falling into You  Falling into You is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 8, 1996. It is her fourth English-language album and twenty-first overall. Falling into You was well received by critics and fans, winning two Grammy Awards for Best Pop Vocal Album and Album of the Year in 1997, and becoming one of the best-selling albums in history, with sales of over 32 million copies worldwide. It was listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers in their Definitive 200 Albums of All Time as the 97th most influential and popular album in history. Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come 3CD set was released in October 2007. Later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection. Also on October 2, 2009 Let's Talk About Love / A New Day Has Come 2CD set was released.
Céline Dion  D'eux  D'eux (meaning Of Them or About Them) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 27, 1995. It was re-named The French Album in the United States. It is Dion's 17th French-language album and 20th in total. D'eux is the best-selling French-language album of all time, It has shipped almost 9 million copies in Europe, Canada and the U.S. alone. D'eux - 15th Anniversary Edition CD/DVD was released on November 18, 2009 in Finland, on November 27, 2009 in France, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, and on December 1, 2009 in Canada. In the United States and Japan it is available as an import. Legacy Recordings issued it to celebrate the upcoming 15th anniversary of D'eux album. The digital version of D'eux - 15th Anniversary Edition contains audio tracks only, without the DVD content. It was released in most European countries on November 24, 2009 and in Canada on December 1, 2009.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  D'eux  D'eux (meaning Of Them or About Them) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 27, 1995. It was re-named The French Album in the United States. It is Dion's 17th French-language album and 20th in total. D'eux is the best-selling French-language album of all time, It has shipped almost 9 million copies in Europe, Canada and the U.S. alone. D'eux - 15th Anniversary Edition CD/DVD was released on November 18, 2009 in Finland, on November 27, 2009 in France, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany, and on December 1, 2009 in Canada. In the United States and Japan it is available as an import. Legacy Recordings issued it to celebrate the upcoming 15th anniversary of D'eux album. The digital version of D'eux - 15th Anniversary Edition contains audio tracks only, without the DVD content. It was released in most European countries on November 24, 2009 and in Canada on December 1, 2009.
Céline Dion  Unison (Celine Dion album)  Unison is the English-language debut album of Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in 1990 in North America and the next year in the rest of the world. Counting her previous French-language releases, it is her 15th album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Unison (Celine Dion album)  Unison is the English-language debut album of Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in 1990 in North America and the next year in the rest of the world. Counting her previous French-language releases, it is her 15th album.
Céline Dion  Celine Dion (album)  Celine Dion is an eponymous album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 31, 1992. It is her second English album and 17th in total. It includes Grammy and Academy Award winning song Beauty and the Beast.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Celine Dion (album)  Celine Dion is an eponymous album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on March 31, 1992. It is her second English album and 17th in total. It includes Grammy and Academy Award winning song Beauty and the Beast.
Céline Dion  These Are Special Times  These Are Special Times is a Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 30, 1998. It's her 1st English-language Christmas album, 6th English album and 25th in total. The album was re-released in Germany, Austria and Switzerland in September 2007, under the title Ihre Schönsten Weihnachtslieder, including the same tracklist as the original version, but a different cover picture. These Are Special Times was also re-released worldwide between October and December 2007 as a collector's edition. This 2-disc digipak contains the original CD and previously unreleased DVD of Dion's 1998 CBS TV special. The CD/DVD Tin Box Gold Edition was also released between October and November 2008 in Australia and selected European countries. On October 6, 2009 the Yule Edition of These Are Special Times was released on DVD. It includes classic holiday scenes with the music from the album in the background. These Are Special Times is one of the best selling Christmas albums, with sales of over twelve million copies worldwide.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  These Are Special Times  These Are Special Times is a Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 30, 1998. It's her 1st English-language Christmas album, 6th English album and 25th in total. The album was re-released in Germany, Austria and Switzerland in September 2007, under the title Ihre Schönsten Weihnachtslieder, including the same tracklist as the original version, but a different cover picture. These Are Special Times was also re-released worldwide between October and December 2007 as a collector's edition. This 2-disc digipak contains the original CD and previously unreleased DVD of Dion's 1998 CBS TV special. The CD/DVD Tin Box Gold Edition was also released between October and November 2008 in Australia and selected European countries. On October 6, 2009 the Yule Edition of These Are Special Times was released on DVD. It includes classic holiday scenes with the music from the album in the background. These Are Special Times is one of the best selling Christmas albums, with sales of over twelve million copies worldwide.
Céline Dion  Dion chante Plamondon  Dion chante Plamondon (meaning Dion sings Plamondon) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 4, 1991. It is her 15th French-language album and 16th in total. In Europe it was re-named Des mots qui sonnent (meaning Words That Sound or Words with Meaning).
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Dion chante Plamondon  Dion chante Plamondon (meaning Dion sings Plamondon) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 4, 1991. It is her 15th French-language album and 16th in total. In Europe it was re-named Des mots qui sonnent (meaning Words That Sound or Words with Meaning).
Céline Dion  S'il suffisait d'aimer  S'il suffisait d'aimer (meaning If Love Were Enough) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on September 7, 1998. It's her 19th French album and 24th in total. S'il suffisait d'aimer is the second best-selling French-language album of all time, after Dion's own D'eux.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  S'il suffisait d'aimer  S'il suffisait d'aimer (meaning If Love Were Enough) is an album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on September 7, 1998. It's her 19th French album and 24th in total. S'il suffisait d'aimer is the second best-selling French-language album of all time, after Dion's own D'eux.
Céline Dion  La voix du bon Dieu  La voix du bon Dieu (meaning Good God's Voice) is a French debut studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on November 9, 1981.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  La voix du bon Dieu  La voix du bon Dieu (meaning Good God's Voice) is a French debut studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on November 9, 1981.
Céline Dion  Céline Dion chante Noël  Céline Dion chante Noël (meaning Céline Dion Sings Christmas Songs) is a French Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in early December 1981. It is her second French album and first Christmas album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Céline Dion chante Noël  Céline Dion chante Noël (meaning Céline Dion Sings Christmas Songs) is a French Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in early December 1981. It is her second French album and first Christmas album.
Céline Dion  Tellement j'ai d'amour...  Tellement j'ai d'amour... (meaning I Have So Much Love... ) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 7, 1982. It's her 3rd French album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Tellement j'ai d'amour...  Tellement j'ai d'amour... (meaning I Have So Much Love... ) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 7, 1982. It's her 3rd French album.
Céline Dion  Les chemins de ma maison  Les chemins de ma maison (meaning The Paths of My House) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 7, 1983. It's her 4th French album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les chemins de ma maison  Les chemins de ma maison (meaning The Paths of My House) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 7, 1983. It's her 4th French album.
Céline Dion  Du soleil au cœur  Du soleil au cœur (meaning Sunshine in the Heart) is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in France in October 1983. It's her 5th French album and 1st released in France.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Du soleil au cœur  Du soleil au cœur (meaning Sunshine in the Heart) is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in France in October 1983. It's her 5th French album and 1st released in France.
Céline Dion  Chants et contes de Noël  Chants et contes de Noël (meaning Christmas Songs and Tales) is a French Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on December 5, 1983. It is her 6th French album and 2nd Christmas album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Chants et contes de Noël  Chants et contes de Noël (meaning Christmas Songs and Tales) is a French Christmas album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on December 5, 1983. It is her 6th French album and 2nd Christmas album.
Céline Dion  Mélanie (album)  Mélanie is a studio album by Canadian singer Celine Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on August 22, 1984. It's her 7th French language album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Mélanie (album)  Mélanie is a studio album by Canadian singer Celine Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on August 22, 1984. It's her 7th French language album.
Céline Dion  Les plus grands succès de Céline Dion  Les plus grands succès de Céline Dion (meaning Céline Dion's Greatest Hits) is a French greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 17, 1984. It is her 8th French album and 1st greatest hits.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les plus grands succès de Céline Dion  Les plus grands succès de Céline Dion (meaning Céline Dion's Greatest Hits) is a French greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on September 17, 1984. It is her 8th French album and 1st greatest hits.
Céline Dion  Les oiseaux du bonheur  Les oiseaux du bonheur (meaning The Birds of Happiness) is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in France in 1984. It's her ninth French album, and her second released in France.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les oiseaux du bonheur  Les oiseaux du bonheur (meaning The Birds of Happiness) is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in France in 1984. It's her ninth French album, and her second released in France.
Céline Dion  C'est pour toi  C'est pour toi (meaning It's For You) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on August 27, 1985. It's her 10th French album.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  C'est pour toi  C'est pour toi (meaning It's For You) is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on August 27, 1985. It's her 10th French album.
Céline Dion  Céline Dion en concert  Céline Dion en concert (meaning Céline Dion in Concert) is a French live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in December 1985. It's her 11th French album and 1st live recording.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Céline Dion en concert  Céline Dion en concert (meaning Céline Dion in Concert) is a French live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in December 1985. It's her 11th French album and 1st live recording.
Céline Dion  Les chansons en or  Les chansons en or (meaning The Golden Songs) is a French greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in 1986. It's her 12th French album and 2nd greatest hits.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les chansons en or  Les chansons en or (meaning The Golden Songs) is a French greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada in 1986. It's her 12th French album and 2nd greatest hits.
Céline Dion  Incognito (Celine Dion album)  Incognito is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on April 2, 1987. It's her 13th French album. Incognito became available worldwide a few years later, when Dion was an international superstar.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Incognito (Celine Dion album)  Incognito is a French studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in Quebec, Canada on April 2, 1987. It's her 13th French album. Incognito became available worldwide a few years later, when Dion was an international superstar.
Céline Dion  The Best of Celine Dion  The Best of Celine Dion is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in selected European countries in 1988. It's her 14th French album and 3rd compilation. In Germany it was re-named Vivre.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  The Best of Celine Dion  The Best of Celine Dion is a French compilation album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released in selected European countries in 1988. It's her 14th French album and 3rd compilation. In Germany it was re-named Vivre.
Céline Dion  Au cœur du stade  Au cœur du stade (meaning At the Heart of the Stadium) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on August 27, 1999. It's her 4th live album, 20th French album and 25th in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Au cœur du stade  Au cœur du stade (meaning At the Heart of the Stadium) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on August 27, 1999. It's her 4th live album, 20th French album and 25th in total.
Céline Dion  Les premières années  Les premières années (meaning The Early Years) is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on December 6, 1993 in France, and later in other selected countries.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les premières années  Les premières années (meaning The Early Years) is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on December 6, 1993 in France, and later in other selected countries.
Céline Dion  Gold Vol. 1  Gold Vol. 1 is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on October 16, 1995 in France and February 1996 in other selected countries.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Gold Vol. 1  Gold Vol. 1 is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on October 16, 1995 in France and February 1996 in other selected countries.
Céline Dion  Gold Vol. 2  Gold Vol. 2 is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on October 16, 1995 in France and later in few other countries (where it was renamed Les premières chansons vol. 2).
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Gold Vol. 2  Gold Vol. 2 is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on October 16, 1995 in France and later in few other countries (where it was renamed Les premières chansons vol. 2).
Céline Dion  C'est pour vivre (album)  C'est pour vivre is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on January 27, 1997 in selected countries.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  C'est pour vivre (album)  C'est pour vivre is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on January 27, 1997 in selected countries.
Céline Dion  The Collection 1982–1988  The Collection 1982-1988 is a 2CD compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on March 31, 1997 in selected countries.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  The Collection 1982–1988  The Collection 1982-1988 is a 2CD compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on March 31, 1997 in selected countries.
Céline Dion  Les indispensables  Les indispensables is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on December 11, 2001 in France.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les indispensables  Les indispensables is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on December 11, 2001 in France.
Céline Dion  Les plus belles chansons d'amour  Les plus belles chansons d'amour (meaning The Most Beautiful Love Songs) is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on February 3, 2004 in Japan, for the Valentine's Day holiday.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Les plus belles chansons d'amour  Les plus belles chansons d'amour (meaning The Most Beautiful Love Songs) is a compilation of Céline Dion's early French recordings. It was released on February 3, 2004 in Japan, for the Valentine's Day holiday.
Céline Dion  On ne change pas (video)  On ne change pas is Céline Dion's seventh home video release. It's a collection of her French music videos, released on November 18, 2005. It was the first time, that Céline Dion's greatest French videos were included on one DVD. On ne change pas also features over one hour of bonus material. However, the DVD does not include the music videos for Délivre-moi, Ne partez pas sans moi and Je lui dirai.  On ne change pas reached number 5 on the French Music DVD Chart and spent there thirty weeks. It was certified 3x platinum for selling over 60,000 copies. It peaked also at number 11 on the Italian Music DVD Chart. All songs are available on the On ne change pas CD which was released on October 3, 2005.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  On ne change pas (video)  On ne change pas is Céline Dion's seventh home video release. It's a collection of her French music videos, released on November 18, 2005. It was the first time, that Céline Dion's greatest French videos were included on one DVD. On ne change pas also features over one hour of bonus material. However, the DVD does not include the music videos for Délivre-moi, Ne partez pas sans moi and Je lui dirai.  On ne change pas reached number 5 on the French Music DVD Chart and spent there thirty weeks. It was certified 3x platinum for selling over 60,000 copies. It peaked also at number 11 on the Italian Music DVD Chart. All songs are available on the On ne change pas CD which was released on October 3, 2005.
Céline Dion  All the Way... A Decade of Song & Video  All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video is Céline Dion's sixth home video release. It's a collection of her English music videos, released on February 20, 2001. This retrospective anthology features videos and live performances of many Céline Dion favorites, with nine signature singles and seven new tracks. The DVD/CD package containing All the Way… A Decade of Song album was released on September 22, 2003. In February/March 2009, a Visual Milestones DVD edition was released in Europe and Australia. The classics include My Heart Will Go On, Because You Loved Me, Beauty and the Beast and I'm Your Angel. New tracks include a remake of the Roberta Flack classic, The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face, If Walls Could Talk, a Mutt Lange tune featuring background vocals by Shania Twain (this video wasn't available before), and Then You Look at Me, title track from the Chris Columbus movie The Bicentennial Man which reunites James Horner and Céline Dion. The DVD also includes a bonus video and other goodies. Beauty and the Beast, Because You Loved Me and To Love You More were taken from the Live in Memphis home video. The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face and All the Way were taken from the CBS TV special (1999). All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video spent 47 weeks on the Top Music Video Chart in the United States, peaking at number 15. It was certified platinum for selling 100,000 copies. But it's undercertified, because according to Nielsen SoundScan it has sold 300,000 copies till May 2010, and should be 3x platinum. All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video reached number 3 on the Australian Music DVD Chart and spent there over a year. It was certified 3x platinum (45,000). In Sweden, the DVD peaked at number 12. An extended version of All the Way… A Decade of Song &amp; Video including six new videos was released as a part of the Ultimate Box in 2008 in Japan.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  All the Way... A Decade of Song & Video  All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video is Céline Dion's sixth home video release. It's a collection of her English music videos, released on February 20, 2001. This retrospective anthology features videos and live performances of many Céline Dion favorites, with nine signature singles and seven new tracks. The DVD/CD package containing All the Way… A Decade of Song album was released on September 22, 2003. In February/March 2009, a Visual Milestones DVD edition was released in Europe and Australia. The classics include My Heart Will Go On, Because You Loved Me, Beauty and the Beast and I'm Your Angel. New tracks include a remake of the Roberta Flack classic, The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face, If Walls Could Talk, a Mutt Lange tune featuring background vocals by Shania Twain (this video wasn't available before), and Then You Look at Me, title track from the Chris Columbus movie The Bicentennial Man which reunites James Horner and Céline Dion. The DVD also includes a bonus video and other goodies. Beauty and the Beast, Because You Loved Me and To Love You More were taken from the Live in Memphis home video. The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face and All the Way were taken from the CBS TV special (1999). All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video spent 47 weeks on the Top Music Video Chart in the United States, peaking at number 15. It was certified platinum for selling 100,000 copies. But it's undercertified, because according to Nielsen SoundScan it has sold 300,000 copies till May 2010, and should be 3x platinum. All the Way... A Decade of Song &amp; Video reached number 3 on the Australian Music DVD Chart and spent there over a year. It was certified 3x platinum (45,000). In Sweden, the DVD peaked at number 12. An extended version of All the Way… A Decade of Song &amp; Video including six new videos was released as a part of the Ultimate Box in 2008 in Japan.
Céline Dion  Au cœur du stade (video)  Au cœur du stade is Céline Dion's fifth home video release. This 90-minute concert was recorded live at the Stade de France in Paris, France during the Let's Talk About Love Tour. It was recorded on June 19-20, 1999 and released on August 30, 1999. During these two sold-out performances Dion sang before 90,000 spectators at a single show for a total of 180,000 in only two nights. Jean-Jacques Goldman joined Céline Dion on J'irai où tu iras, To Love You More features Taro Hakase on violin, and Diana King can be seen on a screen during Treat Her Like a Lady.  Dion paid also tribute to the Bee Gees singing Stayin' Alive and dancing during You Should Be Dancing.  The performance of Tell Him with Barbra Streisand on a big screen was cut from the DVD. The Au cœur du stade DVD also includes exclusive footage from the making of S'il suffisait d'aimer and Let's Talk About Love. It features an appearance by guest star Sir George Martin, and rarely seen footage of Céline Dion, Barbra Streisand, David Foster, and the Tell Him lyricists chatting around the piano. The entire Tell Him video is also included on this disk. Au cœur du stade was certified diamond in France for selling over 100,000 copies. On the French Music DVD Chart, which is available only since September 2003, Au cœur du stade peaked at number 9. Au cœur du stade CD is also available.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Au cœur du stade (video)  Au cœur du stade is Céline Dion's fifth home video release. This 90-minute concert was recorded live at the Stade de France in Paris, France during the Let's Talk About Love Tour. It was recorded on June 19-20, 1999 and released on August 30, 1999. During these two sold-out performances Dion sang before 90,000 spectators at a single show for a total of 180,000 in only two nights. Jean-Jacques Goldman joined Céline Dion on J'irai où tu iras, To Love You More features Taro Hakase on violin, and Diana King can be seen on a screen during Treat Her Like a Lady.  Dion paid also tribute to the Bee Gees singing Stayin' Alive and dancing during You Should Be Dancing.  The performance of Tell Him with Barbra Streisand on a big screen was cut from the DVD. The Au cœur du stade DVD also includes exclusive footage from the making of S'il suffisait d'aimer and Let's Talk About Love. It features an appearance by guest star Sir George Martin, and rarely seen footage of Céline Dion, Barbra Streisand, David Foster, and the Tell Him lyricists chatting around the piano. The entire Tell Him video is also included on this disk. Au cœur du stade was certified diamond in France for selling over 100,000 copies. On the French Music DVD Chart, which is available only since September 2003, Au cœur du stade peaked at number 9. Au cœur du stade CD is also available.
Céline Dion  Live in Memphis  Live in Memphis is Céline Dion's fourth home video release. Originally filmed on March 14-15, 1997 during the Falling into You Tour, camera crews caught up with Céline Dion in Memphis, Tennessee delivering another show-stopping performance. Live in Memphis was released on VHS on November 2, 1998. The DVD was supposed to be released on February 27, 2008 in Japan but it was cancelled. Including previously unreleased live performances from her multi-platinum album Falling into You, this 17 song concert-length program also features a rare performance of The Power of the Dream written exclusively for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, and The Isley Brothers song Twist and Shout.  Dion performed also River Deep, Mountain High.  Although the latter was shown on TV, it wasn't included on the home video. Live in Memphis was certified gold in Canada (50,000 copies) and France (10,000 copies). Three songs from this concert: Beauty and the Beast, To Love You More and Because You Loved Me were included on the All the Way… A Decade of Song &amp; Video DVD in 2001.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Live in Memphis  Live in Memphis is Céline Dion's fourth home video release. Originally filmed on March 14-15, 1997 during the Falling into You Tour, camera crews caught up with Céline Dion in Memphis, Tennessee delivering another show-stopping performance. Live in Memphis was released on VHS on November 2, 1998. The DVD was supposed to be released on February 27, 2008 in Japan but it was cancelled. Including previously unreleased live performances from her multi-platinum album Falling into You, this 17 song concert-length program also features a rare performance of The Power of the Dream written exclusively for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, and The Isley Brothers song Twist and Shout.  Dion performed also River Deep, Mountain High.  Although the latter was shown on TV, it wasn't included on the home video. Live in Memphis was certified gold in Canada (50,000 copies) and France (10,000 copies). Three songs from this concert: Beauty and the Beast, To Love You More and Because You Loved Me were included on the All the Way… A Decade of Song &amp; Video DVD in 2001.
Céline Dion  Live à Paris (video)  Live à Paris is Céline Dion's third home video release. It was recorded live at the renowned Zenith Theatre in Paris, France in October 1995 before an audience of over 6,000 fans, during the D'eux Tour. The concert was released on VHS on November 8, 1996 and re-released on DVD on November 17, 2003. The DVD does not include River Deep, Mountain High.  Live à Paris contains songs from the highly successful French language album D'eux, along with few English-language hits. Jean-Jacques Goldman joined Céline Dion on Les derniers seront les premiers and J'irai où tu iras.  The VHS was certified 3x platinum in France (60,000). The DVD re-release was counted separately and certified platinum (20,000). On the French Music DVD Chart, which is available since September 2003, Live à Paris peaked at number 24. Also, on the Belgian Wallonia Music DVD Chart, available since March 2004, it reached number 9. Live à Paris CD is also available. It was released on October 22, 1996 and features 14 out of 19 tracks performed during the concert.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Live à Paris (video)  Live à Paris is Céline Dion's third home video release. It was recorded live at the renowned Zenith Theatre in Paris, France in October 1995 before an audience of over 6,000 fans, during the D'eux Tour. The concert was released on VHS on November 8, 1996 and re-released on DVD on November 17, 2003. The DVD does not include River Deep, Mountain High.  Live à Paris contains songs from the highly successful French language album D'eux, along with few English-language hits. Jean-Jacques Goldman joined Céline Dion on Les derniers seront les premiers and J'irai où tu iras.  The VHS was certified 3x platinum in France (60,000). The DVD re-release was counted separately and certified platinum (20,000). On the French Music DVD Chart, which is available since September 2003, Live à Paris peaked at number 24. Also, on the Belgian Wallonia Music DVD Chart, available since March 2004, it reached number 9. Live à Paris CD is also available. It was released on October 22, 1996 and features 14 out of 19 tracks performed during the concert.
Céline Dion  The Colour of My Love Concert  The Colour of My Love Concert is Céline Dion's second home video release. It was filmed on September 7-8, 1993 at Le Théàtre Capitole, Quebec City, Canada, long before The Colour of My Love album release and The Colour of My Love Tour. The concert was aired in December 1993 in Canada at the CTV and in February 1994 in the United States at the Disney Channel. It was released on VHS on October 19, 1995 and re-released on DVD on January 6, 1998. Ten years later on September 12, 2008 a Visual Milestones DVD edition was released. At the same time a combo containing The Colour of My Love CD and The Colour of My Love Concert DVD was also released. Céline Dion performed songs from her three English-language albums, in particular the multi-platinum The Colour of My Love. Throughout a concert-length program featuring guests like Peabo Bryson and Clive Griffin, Dion sang also the chart-topping hits: The Power Of Love and Think Twice.  She also performed Elvis Presley's song, called Can't Help Falling in Love.  In 2002, Dion sang it again, during the VH1 Divas concert. The music video of Céline Dion's Pour que tu m'aimes encore was included as a special VHS bonus in Europe. The Colour of My Love Concert spent 39 weeks on the Top Music Video chart in the United States, peaking at number 19. It was certified platinum for selling 100,000 copies. It was also certified platinum in France (20,000). On the Portuguese Music DVD Chart, which is available only since March 2004, The Colour of My Love Concert peaked at number 10. On the Australian Music DVD Chart, available since January 2001, it reached number 19. Also, on the French Music DVD Chart, which is available only since September 2003, The Colour of My Love Concert peaked at number 27.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  The Colour of My Love Concert  The Colour of My Love Concert is Céline Dion's second home video release. It was filmed on September 7-8, 1993 at Le Théàtre Capitole, Quebec City, Canada, long before The Colour of My Love album release and The Colour of My Love Tour. The concert was aired in December 1993 in Canada at the CTV and in February 1994 in the United States at the Disney Channel. It was released on VHS on October 19, 1995 and re-released on DVD on January 6, 1998. Ten years later on September 12, 2008 a Visual Milestones DVD edition was released. At the same time a combo containing The Colour of My Love CD and The Colour of My Love Concert DVD was also released. Céline Dion performed songs from her three English-language albums, in particular the multi-platinum The Colour of My Love. Throughout a concert-length program featuring guests like Peabo Bryson and Clive Griffin, Dion sang also the chart-topping hits: The Power Of Love and Think Twice.  She also performed Elvis Presley's song, called Can't Help Falling in Love.  In 2002, Dion sang it again, during the VH1 Divas concert. The music video of Céline Dion's Pour que tu m'aimes encore was included as a special VHS bonus in Europe. The Colour of My Love Concert spent 39 weeks on the Top Music Video chart in the United States, peaking at number 19. It was certified platinum for selling 100,000 copies. It was also certified platinum in France (20,000). On the Portuguese Music DVD Chart, which is available only since March 2004, The Colour of My Love Concert peaked at number 10. On the Australian Music DVD Chart, available since January 2001, it reached number 19. Also, on the French Music DVD Chart, which is available only since September 2003, The Colour of My Love Concert peaked at number 27.
Céline Dion  Unison (video)  Unison is Céline Dion's first home video, released on VHS on July 2, 1991. It includes the music videos from her English debut album Unison. This collection features never before used version of Calling You, previously unreleased version of Dion's breakthrough hit Where Does My Heart Beat Now (Canadian black and white version mixed with the U.S. performance version), plus exclusive interviews with Céline Dion at her home. Three videos: Délivre-moi, Have a Heart, and Calling You were filmed during the Unison Tour at the Winter Garden Theatre in Toronto, Canada, and later shown in the 1991 MusiMax TV special. In the United States, the U.S. version of (If There Was) Any Other Way from 1991 was included; in Canada, the Canadian version from 1990. This VHS was made in both English and in French. The two contain similar interviews conducted in both languages. This video collection hasn't been released on DVD. Unison home video was certified gold in Canada for selling over 50,000 copies.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Unison (video)  Unison is Céline Dion's first home video, released on VHS on July 2, 1991. It includes the music videos from her English debut album Unison. This collection features never before used version of Calling You, previously unreleased version of Dion's breakthrough hit Where Does My Heart Beat Now (Canadian black and white version mixed with the U.S. performance version), plus exclusive interviews with Céline Dion at her home. Three videos: Délivre-moi, Have a Heart, and Calling You were filmed during the Unison Tour at the Winter Garden Theatre in Toronto, Canada, and later shown in the 1991 MusiMax TV special. In the United States, the U.S. version of (If There Was) Any Other Way from 1991 was included; in Canada, the Canadian version from 1990. This VHS was made in both English and in French. The two contain similar interviews conducted in both languages. This video collection hasn't been released on DVD. Unison home video was certified gold in Canada for selling over 50,000 copies.
Céline Dion  D'elles  D'elles (meaning About Them or From Them) is the title of Céline Dion's French-language album, released between May 18 and June 1, 2007 in certain European countries, on May 22, 2007 in Canada, and February 27, 2008 in Japan. It is her 23rd French album and 34th if counting all longplays. Unlike Dion's previous French studio albums, D'elles was not released in the United States, Australia, or New Zealand.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  D'elles  D'elles (meaning About Them or From Them) is the title of Céline Dion's French-language album, released between May 18 and June 1, 2007 in certain European countries, on May 22, 2007 in Canada, and February 27, 2008 in Japan. It is her 23rd French album and 34th if counting all longplays. Unlike Dion's previous French studio albums, D'elles was not released in the United States, Australia, or New Zealand.
Céline Dion  Taking Chances  Taking Chances is an English language studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 7, 2007 on CD and CD/DVD. It's her 13th English album and 35th in total. The collector's edition which includes CD, DVD and perfume in special package, was released in December 2007 in North America and February 2008 in Europe. On April 21, 2008, a new deluxe version was digitally released in Europe (except France), containing Immensité, Map to My Heart and Taking Chances (I-Soul extended remix) as bonus tracks.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Taking Chances  Taking Chances is an English language studio album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 7, 2007 on CD and CD/DVD. It's her 13th English album and 35th in total. The collector's edition which includes CD, DVD and perfume in special package, was released in December 2007 in North America and February 2008 in Europe. On April 21, 2008, a new deluxe version was digitally released in Europe (except France), containing Immensité, Map to My Heart and Taking Chances (I-Soul extended remix) as bonus tracks.
Céline Dion  Live in Las Vegas: A New Day...  Live in Las Vegas: A New Day... is Céline Dion's eighth home video, released on DVD between December 7-10, 2007 in Europe, on December 11, 2007 in North America, December 15, 2007 in Australia and December 19, 2007 in Japan. It includes the record-breaking show A New Day... at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Blu-ray Disc version was also released on February 5, 2008 in North America, and between February 8-22, 2008 in Europe. A New Day... ended on December 15, 2007, after a 5 year run of more than 700 shows and 3 million spectators. It reached one of the highest concert grosses in music history, $400,000,000. The 2 disc DVD contains more than 5 hours of never-before seen footage, including the concert and 3 exclusive documentaries: Because You Loved Me (A Tribute to the Fans), A New Day: All Access and A New Day: the Secrets. It contains subtitles in 9 languages. The inside booklet includes richly detailed photographs and generous liner notes. In 2009, the DVD received Juno Award nomination in category Music DVD of the Year.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Live in Las Vegas: A New Day...  Live in Las Vegas: A New Day... is Céline Dion's eighth home video, released on DVD between December 7-10, 2007 in Europe, on December 11, 2007 in North America, December 15, 2007 in Australia and December 19, 2007 in Japan. It includes the record-breaking show A New Day... at Caesars Palace in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Blu-ray Disc version was also released on February 5, 2008 in North America, and between February 8-22, 2008 in Europe. A New Day... ended on December 15, 2007, after a 5 year run of more than 700 shows and 3 million spectators. It reached one of the highest concert grosses in music history, $400,000,000. The 2 disc DVD contains more than 5 hours of never-before seen footage, including the concert and 3 exclusive documentaries: Because You Loved Me (A Tribute to the Fans), A New Day: All Access and A New Day: the Secrets. It contains subtitles in 9 languages. The inside booklet includes richly detailed photographs and generous liner notes. In 2009, the DVD received Juno Award nomination in category Music DVD of the Year.
Céline Dion  Live à Paris  Live à Paris (meaning Live in Paris) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 22, 1996. It's her 3rd live album, 18th French album and 22nd in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Live à Paris  Live à Paris (meaning Live in Paris) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 22, 1996. It's her 3rd live album, 18th French album and 22nd in total.
Céline Dion  On ne change pas  On ne change pas (meaning We Don't Change) is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, which sums up twenty five years of her French career. It's her first official French language 'best of' album in almost twenty years. On ne change pas is Dion's 22nd French album and 33rd if counting all longplays. It was released on September 30, 2005. On November 23, 2009, Triple Best Of was released in France. It contains 3 CDs from the Long Box version of On ne change pas in new digipak. Also on this date, the 2CD version was re-released in a slim metal case.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  On ne change pas  On ne change pas (meaning We Don't Change) is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, which sums up twenty five years of her French career. It's her first official French language 'best of' album in almost twenty years. On ne change pas is Dion's 22nd French album and 33rd if counting all longplays. It was released on September 30, 2005. On November 23, 2009, Triple Best Of was released in France. It contains 3 CDs from the Long Box version of On ne change pas in new digipak. Also on this date, the 2CD version was re-released in a slim metal case.
Céline Dion  Complete Best (Celine Dion album)  Complete Best is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on February 27, 2008 in Japan. It's her 14th English language album and 36th in total. On July 22, 2009 the album was reissued in Blu-spec CD format in Japan.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Complete Best (Celine Dion album)  Complete Best is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on February 27, 2008 in Japan. It's her 14th English language album and 36th in total. On July 22, 2009 the album was reissued in Blu-spec CD format in Japan.
Céline Dion  Ultimate Box  Ultimate Box is a two CD and three DVD box set by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on February 27, 2008 in Japan.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Ultimate Box  Ultimate Box is a two CD and three DVD box set by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on February 27, 2008 in Japan.
Céline Dion  À l'Olympia  À l'Olympia (meaning At the Olympia) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 14, 1994. It's her 2nd live album, 16th French album and 19th in total.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  À l'Olympia  À l'Olympia (meaning At the Olympia) is a live album by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on November 14, 1994. It's her 2nd live album, 16th French album and 19th in total.
Céline Dion  Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come  Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come is a 3CD box set by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 29, 2007. Two years later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come  Let's Talk About Love / Falling into You / A New Day Has Come is a 3CD box set by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on October 29, 2007. Two years later, it was repacked and released in a reusable gift box on September 29, 2009, titled The Collection.
Céline Dion  My Love: Essential Collection  My Love: Essential Collection is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion. It was released between October and December 2008 worldwide, except Japan.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  My Love: Essential Collection  My Love: Essential Collection is a greatest hits album by Canadian singer Céline Dion. It was released between October and December 2008 worldwide, except Japan.
Céline Dion  Céline sur les Plaines  Céline sur les Plaines is the ninth home video by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on DVD in Quebec on November 11, 2008. Titled Live à Quebec, it was also released in France and Belgium on May 20, 2009, in two editions: standard DVD, and collector's edition DVD in digipak with 10 photographs from the concert. In October 2009, Céline sur les Plaines received a Félix Award for a DVD of the Year.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Céline sur les Plaines  Céline sur les Plaines is the ninth home video by Canadian singer Céline Dion, released on DVD in Quebec on November 11, 2008. Titled Live à Quebec, it was also released in France and Belgium on May 20, 2009, in two editions: standard DVD, and collector's edition DVD in digipak with 10 photographs from the concert. In October 2009, Céline sur les Plaines received a Félix Award for a DVD of the Year.
Céline Dion  Taking Chances World Tour: The Concert  Taking Chances World Tour: The Concert is a live album/home video by Canadian recording artist Céline Dion. It was released between April 29 and May 14, 2010 in two versions: English and French, both in CD/DVD format. The CD/DVD set is accompanied by an eight page booklet of never before seen tour photos. Both DVDs were recorded over four nights, with two concerts at TD Garden in Boston on August 12 and 13, 2008, and two at Bell Centre in Montreal, on August 31 and September 1, 2008. For the songs performed in both English and French concerts, the vocals and footage appear the same on both DVDs, as a mix of the Boston and Montreal performances. However, the two DVDs differ, as they each contain songs that were only included in the English-language or French-language setlists. The French-language edition is called Tournée mondiale Taking Chances: Le spectacle.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Taking Chances World Tour: The Concert  Taking Chances World Tour: The Concert is a live album/home video by Canadian recording artist Céline Dion. It was released between April 29 and May 14, 2010 in two versions: English and French, both in CD/DVD format. The CD/DVD set is accompanied by an eight page booklet of never before seen tour photos. Both DVDs were recorded over four nights, with two concerts at TD Garden in Boston on August 12 and 13, 2008, and two at Bell Centre in Montreal, on August 31 and September 1, 2008. For the songs performed in both English and French concerts, the vocals and footage appear the same on both DVDs, as a mix of the Boston and Montreal performances. However, the two DVDs differ, as they each contain songs that were only included in the English-language or French-language setlists. The French-language edition is called Tournée mondiale Taking Chances: Le spectacle.
Charles Aznavour  Hier Encore  Hier Encore is a song released in 1964, written by Charles Aznavour and Georges Garvarentz. It was subsequently released in English (Yesterday When I Was Young), Italian (Ieri Si), and Spanish (Ayer Aún). It is considered one of Aznavour's greatest hits. The English-language lyrics were written by Herbert Kretzmer.
Charles Aznavour  Une Vie D'amour  Une Vie D'Amour (A life of love) is the title of a song written by Charles Aznavour to the music of Georges Garvarentz. The Russian lyrics of the song were written by Natalia Konchalovsky. The original version, sung by Aznavour and Mireille Mathieu in French and Russian, was introduced in the 1981 movie Teheran 43. In March the same year it was by released by French Barclay Records in two separate albums - Teheran 43, and Une vie d'amour with Mireille Mathieu. The song, whose title can be loosely translated as eternal love, is a slow love ballad.
Charles Aznavour  Christmas in Vienna III  Christmas in Vienna III (known in the USA as Vienna Noël) is a 1995 Christmas album released by Spanish operatic tenor Plácido Domingo, French chanson and pop music star Charles Aznavour, and Norwegian crossover soprano Sissel Kyrkjebø on the Sony Classical label. It was recorded on December 22, 1994 at the Alte Winterreitschule in Vienna, Austria, the third of Plácido Domingo's numerous Christmas in Vienna concerts. The Vienna Symphony, under the direction of maestro Vjekoslav Šutej, provided orchestral accompanying to the three singers, and the Vienna Children's Choir provided choral backups. The concert proved to be a success; the recorded event was broadcast internationally and released as an album internationally during the 1995 Christmas season.
Charles Aznavour  40 chansons d'or  40 chansons d'or is a double-CD by Charles Aznavour, released in 1996 on EMI Records.
Charles Aznavour  The Old Fashioned Way (song)  The Old Fashioned Way is the English version of Charles Aznavour's Les plaisirs demodes song. The song was released in English in 1973 and became a hit in the UK.
Charles Aznavour  Aznavour Minnelli: Paris, Palais des Congrès  Aznavour Minnelli: Paris, Palais des Congrès is a 1995 live album featuring the performers Charles Aznavour and Liza Minnelli, recorded at the Palais des congrès de Paris. The album features two full sets from the performers, with Minnelli and Aznavour also performing together on several tracks.
Charlotte Church  Voice of an Angel  Voice of an Angel is the title of the debut music recording/album featuring the voice of 12-year-old soprano Charlotte Church, released in 1998.
Charlotte Church  Tissues and Issues  Tissues and Issues is the platinum selling fifth studio album by the Welsh singer Charlotte Church released by Sony BMG UK in the United Kingdom on July 11, 2005. Church states that she titled the album Tissues and Issues because it epitomises teenage problems, which everybody goes through.  The album debuted on the UK Albums Chart at number five and was accredited platinum by BPI for sales over 300,000. The album yielded Church four successful top twenty singles; Crazy Chick, Call My Name, Even God and Moodswings (to Come at Me like That). The album represents a wholly new direction for the singer. Her previous album, Prelude, a 'best of' album, had concluded her classical career; Tissues and Issues is her first pop album. The first single to be taken from the album, Crazy Chick, released shortly before the album itself, reached number two on the UK Singles Chart. Call My Name, the second single, reached number ten in October 2005. Even God, the third single has debuted in the Top twenty in early December 2005. The fourth single, Moodswings, was released on February 27, 2006, and peaked at number fourteen on the UK charts. An early batch of the album had print errors on the right and left hand side title faces. The faces had the title Charlotte Church : Crazy Chick, when it should have been Charlotte Church : Tissues and Issues. Tissues and Issues is Charlotte's last album with Sony Music UK.
Charlotte Church  Charlotte Church (album)  Charlotte Church is the self-titled second music recording/album featuring the voice of 13-year-old soprano Charlotte Church, released in 1999.
Charlotte Church  Dream a Dream  Dream a Dream is the third music recording/album featuring the voice of 14-year-old soprano Charlotte Church, released in 2000. The album is principally a collection of Christmas carols, but also includes the title track Dream a Dream, Charlotte's first foray into a more pop-influenced genre, based on the melody from Fauré's Pavane and featuring young American country singer Billy Gilman.
Charlotte Church  Enchantment (album)  Enchantment is the fourth music recording/album featuring the voice of 15-year-old soprano Charlotte Church, released in 2001. Enchantment was Church's last classical studio album with any original material; her next album, Prelude: The Best of Charlotte Church, would be a best of collection, and she subsequently changed from the classical to the pop genre with her album, Tissues and Issues, her final album with Sony Music.
Charlotte Church  Prelude: The Best of Charlotte Church  Prelude: the Best of Charlotte Church is a 'best of' collection spanning the four classical music albums of the 16-year-old soprano Charlotte Church, released in 2002, and also available on DVD. Prelude commemorates the end of Charlotte's classical career; her next album, Tissues and Issues, her last album with Sony Music, would be a pop album.
Charlotte Church  Back to Scratch  Back to Scratch is the 6th studio album from Welsh Classical Crossover and Singer Songwriter Charlotte Church. The album will be released on October 25, 2010, 5 years after the release of Church's last studio album Tissues and Issues in 2005. The album has been described by Church as having a new different sound but also one that goes with my voice, Church has also described the album as more mature and as having a more Quirky vibe than her last album. The album was preceded by the lead single and title track Back to Scratch on September 19, 2010 which was originally written about a relative but which Church has recently described as being more relevant to her own split from former boyfriend Gavin Henson. The album will be her first release on independent label Dooby Records after signing a $3m investment deal with all her previous albums being released on longtime label Sony BMG.
Cher  Heart of Stone (Cher album)  Heart of Stone is the twentieth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on June 19, 1989 by Geffen Records. The RIAA certified it Double Platinum on July 5, 1990. The album was supported by her 1989 sold-out Heart of Stone Tour. It was Cher's best selling album of the 80s. The album has sold 5,100,000 copies world-wide, which makes it her 3rd best-selling album.
Cher  Stars (Cher album)  Stars is the twelfth studio album by American singer Cher, released in 1975 by Warner Bros. Records. The album was one in a string of commercial flops for Cher in the 1970s and failed to chart. The album is by-and-large a covers album.
Cher  The Very Best of Cher  The Very Best of Cher is a 2003 compilation album by Cher. The album includes many of Cher's most popular songs, such as If I Could Turn Back Time, Believe, Just Like Jesse James, and Dark Lady.
Cher  All I Really Want to Do (album)  All I Really Want to Do is the debut solo album by American singer and actress Cher and was released on October 16, 1965 by Imperial Records. The album was produced for Cher by her husband and singing partner, Sonny Bono, with contributions from arranger Harold Battiste. The album is by-and-large a collection of cover versions but does contain three songs written by Bono. Upon its release, the album was well received by critics and garnered positive reviews. The album was Cher's first and most successful album of the 1960s, both in the UK and the U.S.
Cher  The Sonny Side of Chér  The Sonny Side of Chér is the second studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on February 1966 by Imperial. For her second album, Cher again collaborates with Sonny Bono and Harold Battiste. The album is by-and-large a covers album and contains two songs written by Bono. The title of the album is a pun on the name of Cher's first husband Bono. After its release, the album garnered positive reviews from critics. The album was Cher's second successful album of the sixties.
Cher  Living Proof  Living Proof is the twenty-fifth album by American singer-actress Cher, released in November 2001 in Europe and February 2002 in the United States by Warner Bros. Records and WEA Records.
Cher  Believe (Cher album)  Believe is the twenty-third studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on November 10, 1998 by Warner Bros. Records. The RIAA certified it Quadruple Platinum on December 23, 1999, recognizing four million shipments in the United States. In 1999 the album received three Grammy Awards nominations including Record of the Year, Best Pop Album and winning Best Dance Recording for the single Believe. The album has sold 20,000,000 copies world-wide which makes it her best-selling album, and also one of the best selling albums of all time.
Cher  Not.com.mercial  not. com. mercial is the twenty fourth album by American singer-actress Cher, released on November 8, 2000. The album was released exclusively through Cher. com and Artist Direct, it was the album that followed Cher's largest commercial hit Believe.
Cher  Cher (1987 album)  Cher is the nineteenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on November 10, 1987 by Geffen Records. It has sold 3,000,000 copies world-wide.
Cher  It's a Man's World  It's a Man's World is the twenty-second album by American singer-actress, Cher released on November 6, 1995 by Warner Bros Records. This is also the start of her second stint with the label. It has sold 3,200,000 copies world-wide.
Cher  Love Hurts (Cher album)  Love Hurts is the twenty-first studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on June 11, 1991 by Geffen Records. The RIAA certified it Gold on August 27, 1991. It is the final studio album with the record label Geffen. The lead single from the album was, Love and Understanding and the follow-up singles were Save Up All Your Tears, Love Hurts, Could've Been You and When Lovers Become Strangers. The album has sold 11,000,000 copies world-wide, which makes it her 2nd best-selling album.
Cher  Live! The Farewell Tour  Live! The Farewell Tour is currently the only live album by Cher. The album was recorded at the American Airlines Arena in Miami, Florida, United States on a show from her Living Proof: The Farewell Tour.
Cher  The Very Best of Cher: The Video Hits Collection  'The Very Best of Cher: The Video Hits Collection' is a collection of 15 of Cher's greatest music videos. The anthology includes the popular Believe and If I Could Turn Back Time as well as the obscure Main Man. On the album's back cover, Song for the Lonely is listed as Song for the Lonely (Almighty Remix), though it is the original video, not a remix. Conversely, the Dov'è L'Amore video actually uses the Emilio Estefan remix of the song.
Cher  Gold (Cher album)  Gold is the sixth U.S. compilation album by American singer-actress Cher, released on March 1, 2005 by Hip-O Records. The album was released only two years after the multi-platinum The Very Best of Cher, yet it was well received by the Allmusic critic, who gave it a four-and-a-half out of five.
Cher  Take Me Home (Cher album)  Take Me Home is the fifteenth studio album by American singer-actess Cher, released on January 25, 1979 by Casablanca Records. The RIAA certified it Gold on May 17, 1979. It has sold over 1,000,000 copies world-wide.
Cher  Black Rose (Cher album)  Black Rose is the seventeenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher and the debut album by her band, Black Rose. The album was released on August 21, 1980 by Casablanca Records. Unlike previous records the album was a commercial failure, failed to chart and has sold only 400,000 copies worldwide.
Cher  I Paralyze  I Paralyze is the eighteenth album by American singer-actress Cher, released on May 28, 1982 by Columbia Records. This album, like other several predecessors, was a commercial failure, failed to chart. Following the record's release, Cher took a five year hiatus from music to focus on a film career.
Cher  Cher: The Farewell Tour Live in Miami  Cher: The Farewell Tour Live in Miami is the third live music video title by singer-actress Cher. Released by Warner Music Video in 2003, it contained a live date from The Farewell Tour, filmed at American Airlines Arena in Miami on November 8, 2002. It was originally aired as a television special on American network NBC. Cher was awarded with an Emmy for Outstanding Variety, Music or Comedy Special. The same performance is also available on CD format as Live! The Farewell Tour.
Cher  Prisoner (album)  Prisoner is the sixteenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on October 22, 1979 by Casablanca Records. Prisoner had a more moderate success, mostly due to the dance track Hell on Wheels.
Cher  Gypsys, Tramps & Thieves (album)  Gypsys, Tramps &amp; Thieves is the seventh studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on September 1971 by Kapp Records. For the realization of this album, Cher left her husband Sonny Bono to produce the album, and for the first time she collabored with Snuff Garrett and with Al Capps for the arrangements. The album was released initially with the title Cher in 1971, but later, after the success of the single of the same name was retitled Gypsys, Tramps &amp; Thieves. After its release, Gypsys, Tramps &amp; Thieves faced positive reviews from critics, and RIAA certified it Gold on July 2, 1972. The album was her first and most successful album of the seventies.
Cher  Foxy Lady (Cher album)  Foxy Lady is the eighth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released in July 1972 by Kapp Records. Following the commercial success of the previous album Cher, Cher again collaborated with Snuff Garrett (producer), Al Capp (arrangements) and her first ex-husband Sonny Bono (co-producer). Foxy Lady was also the second and last record for Kapp. The album was also promoted on Cher's successful The Sonny &amp; Cher Comedy Hour show. After its release, it was well received by critics, but unlike her previous effort Cher, had only moderate success.
Cher  Bittersweet White Light  Bittersweet White Light was the ninth studio album by American singer-actress Cher. The album was released on April 1973 by MCA. It was the last solo Cher album produced by then-performing partner and husband Sonny Bono. While many fans consider the album to be her best vocal performance, Bittersweet White Light, comprised mostly of covers of American pop standards, was Cher's first commercial failure of the 1970s. It was Cher's first record released only by MCA, both in the UK and the US.
Cher  Half-Breed (album)  Half-Breed is the tenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on October 27, 1973 by MCA. For the production of the album Cher returned with Snuff Garrett and Al Capps. Half-Breed was the second record for MCA and was also promoted on her successful The Sonny &amp; Cher Comedy Hour show. After its release, the album faced mixed reviews from critics, and RIAA certified it Gold on March 4, 1974. The album was her second successful album of the seventies.
Cher  Dark Lady (album)  Dark Lady is the eleventh studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on May 1974 by MCA. Cher again collaborated with Snuff Garrett as a record producer, and with Al Capps for the arrangements. Dark Lady was the third and final studio album for MCA. It was also the last record promoted on her successful The Sonny &amp; Cher Comedy Hour show. After its release, the album received positive reviews from critics but, unlike her previous record produced by Garrett, was only moderately successful.
Cher  The Greatest Hits (Cher album)  The Greatest Hits is the second European compilation album by American singer-actess Cher, released on November 30, 1999 by Warner Bros
Cher  With Love, Chér  With Love, Chér is the fourth album by American singer-actess Cher, released on November 1967 by Imperial Records. This album was a commercial success, charted 48 on the Billboard Chart.
Cher  3614 Jackson Highway  3614 Jackson Highway is the sixth album by American singer-actress Cher, released on June 1969 by ATCO. This album, like other several predecessors, was a commercial failure, failed to chart. The album is by-and-large a covers album.
Cher  Greatest Hits: 1965–1992  Greatest Hits: 1965-1992 is the first European compilation album by American singer-actess Cher, released on November 9, 1992 by Geffen Records. It has sold 4,970,000 copies world-wide, which makes it her 5th best-selling album.
Cher  If I Could Turn Back Time: Cher's Greatest Hits  If I Could Turn Back Time: Cher's Greatest Hits is the fourth U.S. compilation album by American singer-actess Cher, released on March 9, 1999 by Geffen.
Cher  Chér (1966 album)  Chér is the third studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on October 1966 by Imperial. Cher collaborates again with Sonny Bono, with Harold Battiste and with Stan Ross. The album is by-and-large a covers
Cher  Backstage (album)  Backstage is the fifth album by American singer-actess Cher, released on July 1968 by Imperial Records. This album was her first commercial failure, failed to chart. The album is by-and-large a covers album.
Cher  Cherished  Cherished is the fourteenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher released in September 1977 by Warner Bros. Records. This album, like other several predecessors, was a commercial failure and failed to chart.
Cher  I'd Rather Believe in You  I'd Rather Believe in You is the thirteenth studio album by American singer-actress Cher, released on October 1976 by Warner Bros. Records. This album, like other several predecessors, was a commercial failure and failed to chart.
Cher  Greatest Hits (Cher album)  Greatest Hits is the third greatest hits by American singer-actess Cher, released on October 1974 by MCA Records. The album was released for closed the contract with MCA, her record company since 1971. The release following her two previous greatest hits albums, Golden Greats (1968) and Superpack
Cher  Superpack Volumes 1 & 2 (Cher Greatest Hits)  Superpack Vol. 1&amp;2 is the second official Compilation album by American singer/actress Cher. This compilation most prominently features Cher's 1966 hit single, Bang Bang (My Baby Shot Me Down), as well as her 1965 hit debut single, All I Really Want to Do. The rest of the album features Cher's overlooked and underrated hit singles from the '60s. Among those overlooked hits are: Needles and Pins, Alfie, Hey Joe, and many more. All the songs that are sung are covers of the original versions.
Cher  Cher: Live at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas  Live at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas is the second live music video title by singer and actress Cher. Released by HBO in 1999, it contained footage from Cher's Do You Believe? Tour specials filmed at MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas in 1999. It featured tracks from Gypsys, Tramps &amp; Thieves album to Believe album, alongside various covers. She has 7 costume changes by stylist Bob Mackie.
Cher  Cher – The Video Collection  Cher The Video Collection is the first commercially released greatest videos compilation by singer-actress Cher. It was released by Geffen Records only in the UK circa 1993 to promote Cher's first European compilation Greatest Hits: 1965-1992 .
Cher  Live at the Mirage  Live at the Mirage is the fourth and latest live music video title by singer and actress Cher. Initially released by Sony BMG in 1992, and re-released in 2005 by Eagle Rock Entertainment, it contained footage from Cher's two Heart of Stone Tour specials filmed at Mirage Hotel in Las Vegas in 1990. It featured tracks from Cher and Heart of Stone albums alongside various covers.
Cher  Cher Extravaganza: Live at the Mirage  Extravaganza: Live at the Mirage is the first live music video title by singer and actress Cher. Released by Sony BMG in 1992, it contained footage from Cher's two Heart of Stone Tour specials filmed at Mirage Hotel in Las Vegas in 1990. It featured tracks from Cher and Heart of Stone albums alongside various covers.
Cher  Chastity (soundtrack)  Chastity is the first soundtrack album by American singer-actess Cher, released on June 1969 by Atco. It was released to promote and accompany the 1969 motion picture, Chastity. The album was a commercial failure.
Cher  Cher's Golden Greats  Cher's Golden Greats is the first compilation album by American singer-actess Cher, released on 1968 by Imperial Records and Liberty Records. The album peaked at #195 on the official Billboard 200, and was a commercial flop. The album was released for closed the contract with the Liberty Records and Imperial Records, because her last studio albums were both a flop.
Cher  Outrageous (album)  Outrageous is the first remix album by American singer-actress Cher, released on August, 1989 by PolyGram. It was released initially in North America, and released the subsequent years in some European countries.
Cher  The Ugly Duckling (album)  The Ugly Duckling is a tale album by American singer-actress Cher, released in 1987 by Windham Hill Records.
Cher  Hard Enough Getting Over You  Hard Enough Getting Over You is the final song on the 1987 album Cher. It was written by Michael Bolton and Doug James for Cher's comeback album after spending time on her acting career. Ironicly the song was later covered by Laura Branigan who originally sang I Found Someone which Cher covered for the album.
Chris Cornell  Euphoria Morning  Euphoria Morning is the first solo studio album released by American musician Chris Cornell. It was released on September 21, 1999 through Interscope Records. Euphoria Morning sold over 75,000 copies in its first week of release and eventually sold 343,000 copies in the U.S. alone. While a large success critically, it did not sell nearly as well as Cornell's albums with Soundgarden. It is Cornell's only album between the split of Soundgarden until he joined members of Rage Against the Machine in forming Audioslave.
Chris Cornell  Carry On (Chris Cornell album)  Carry On is the second solo studio album released by American musician Chris Cornell. It was released on May 28, 2007 in the United Kingdom and June 5, 2007 in the United States. This album is Cornell's second after Euphoria Morning in 1999, and his first since leaving his former band Audioslave. As of September 4, 2007, the album has sold 121,000 copies in the US and 300,000 copies worldwide.
Chris Cornell  The Roads We Choose – A Retrospective  The Roads We Choose - A Retrospective is a promo compilation album released by Chris Cornell. It spans his career as a whole, featuring songs from Temple of the Dog, Soundgarden and Audioslave, as well as material from his solo career. The Roads We Choose was a working title for the Audioslave song Out of Exile. It is also a title of a bonus track on Cornell's album Carry On released few months after. A number of previously unreleased acoustic versions of songs were included, but these appear to have been recorded when Cornell was still with Audioslave/Soundgarden due to those bands being credited as the recording artists.
Chris Cornell  Scream (Chris Cornell album)  Scream is the third solo studio album by American musician Chris Cornell. Released on March 10, 2009, it marked a shift from Cornell's previous musical efforts with the exclusion of some guitar and rock elements that were replaced with producer Timbaland's electronic pop soundscapes. The album was promoted with the release of five digital singles and three music videos, and was met with mostly negative reviews. The album debuted in the U. S at number 10 on the Billboard 200 with 26,000 copies sold.
Chris Cornell  Part of Me Remix EP  Part of Me Remix EP (also listed as Part of Me in iTunes) is a digital released EP by American rock musician Chris Cornell, released on May 26, 2009. The album features four electronic pop remixes of Cornell's fifth and most recent single Part of Me, released from his R&amp;B/pop album Scream. Remixes are provided by California-based electro house DJ Steve Aoki, electro-hop group LMFAO, electronica production team L.A. Riots and DJ Kleerup.
Christina Aguilera  Christina Aguilera (album)  In early 1998, after finishing some demos and shopping for a record deal, Christina auditioned to sing 'Reflection' for Disney's animated film 'Mulan. ' The filmmakers needed someone 'who could hit a high E above middle C,' according to Christina, who then cut a one-take demo in her living room singing to a karaoke tape of Whitney Houston's 'Run To You. ' The demo was rushed to Disney, and within a day, Christina was in a Los Angeles studio recording 'Reflection. ' That same week, RCA Records signed her to a record contract. 'Mulan' premiered in June 1998, and Reflection, turned into a Top 15 Adult Contemporary single, with Christina performing it live on 'CBS This Morning' and the 'Donnie &amp; Marie Show. ' Aguilera began recording her debut album in June 1998 with executive producers Ron Fair and Diane Warren.
Christina Aguilera  Stripped (Christina Aguilera album)  Stripped is the second English studio album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera, released in 2002. It reached the top two of the album charts in both the United States and United Kingdom and features two UK number-one hits in Dirrty and Beautiful. Aguilera supported the album with the Justified/Stripped Tour and Stripped World Tour in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. With this album, Aguilera took creative control over a project for the first time, being influenced by many different subjects and music styles, including rhythm and blues, gospel, soul, pop rock, and hip hop. She co-wrote fourteen songs was involved in the production of the record, which was mainly produced by Scott Storch and Linda Perry. During the promotion of the album, Aguilera's public appearance had been criticized heavily in the US, due to her sexual videos and revealing outfits. Aguilera had four nominations for the Grammy Awards in the categories Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals for Dirrty and Can't Hold Us Down, Best Pop Vocal Album, Song of the Year and won the category of Best Female Pop Vocal Performance (Beautiful). The album sold over 13 million copies worldwide. It is number 23 in the best-selling albums chart of the 2000s in the United States.
Christina Aguilera  Mi Reflejo  Mi Reflejo is the only Spanish-language studio album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera, released in 2000. Most of the album was produced by Rudy Perez and includes Spanish versions of five songs from her debut album Christina Aguilera, as well as six new songs. The album won the Latin Grammy for Best Female Pop Vocal Album in 2001.
Christina Aguilera  My Kind of Christmas  My Kind of Christmas is a Christmas album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera, released in 2000. While The Christmas Song was recorded during her debut album sessions, all of the other songs from My Kind of Christmas were recorded while Aguilera was on tour in mid-late 2000. The album was recorded at the same time as Aguilera was recording her Spanish-language album Mi Reflejo—the albums were released one month apart. The album went platinum in the U.S. , shipping 3 million copies worldwide. Christmas Time was shipped to radio in mid-November 2000 and served as the first (and only) single to be released off the album, though not receiving any video treatment. Ironically the track Merry Christmas, Baby entered the Billboard Hot Ringtones at number thirty-eight in December 2007. In addition, Climb Every Mountain, originally performed by Julie Andrews in the movie The Sound of Music, and which can be heard on her My Reflection DVD, was recorded for My Kind of Christmas but the song remained absent when the physical release became available. The song has yet to be leaked through the internet, or through any other available source. These Are the Special Times is a cover of the title track from Celine Dion's 1998 Christmas album These Are Special Times.
Christina Aguilera  Just Be Free  Just Be Free is an unofficial album of future American pop/R&amp;B singer Christina Aguilera's early demo recordings, which were submitted when she was 14 and 15 years old. These tracks were never intended to be released to the public, but were instead used as a tool to enter the music industry. In 2000, by which time she was a household name, a single emerged into record stores called Just Be Free, one of the demos Aguilera recorded. When RCA Records discovered the single, they officially advised fans not to purchase it, since it was unauthorized, and had German authorities pull the single off shelves as well. Months later, indie label Warlock Records was set to release Just Be Free, an album which contains the demo tracks. Aguilera filed a breach of contract and unfair-competition suit against Warlock and former producers Michael Brown and Robert Alleca in an effort to block the release, arguing that the album didn't reflect her music direction because of her age when she recorded it, and how they used Aguilera's name, likeness and image without permission to advertise a product. In the end, the two parties came to a settlement to release the album to the public. She lent out her name, likeness and image for an unspecified amount of damages. Many of the details of the lawsuit remain confidential. When the album was released on August 21, 2001, it had a photograph of Aguilera when she was 15 years old, and the following statement from her written in its liner notes: Dear Friends: Just Be Free was recorded when I was 14 and 15 years old. At that young age, I made the recordings as a possible stepping stone to a career in music, which is my ultimate passion. They were made just so that I could get my foot in the door of the music business. I did not intend that the recordings would be widely released, especially after I signed with a major record label. I have not updated or finished the versions recorded in my childhood, and they are being released as is, although I tried to prevent the release for several years. The recordings do not in any way reflect my current musical taste and where I am as an artist. The growth and vocal development I experienced as I matured into young adulthood is not reflected in the recordings. The album of new recordings that I intend to release this fall will be the album that truly reflects my artistry, my vision, and my passion. The Just Be Free recordings will hopefully be a footnote in a musical career that I dream will last for many years to come. &#8212;Christina Aguilera, Album liner notes
Christina Aguilera  Stripped Live in the U.K.  Stripped Live in the U.K. is the second concert DVD by Christina Aguilera, and documents the premiere UK performances of her Stripped World Tour. The DVD does not include Make Over which was situated after Can't Hold Us Down. An extended version of What a Girl Wants can be seen on television broadcast of the concert.
Christina Aguilera  My Reflection  My Reflection is a concert DVD by Christina Aguilera, released in 2001. The concert early before being released on DVD was shown in a one-hour special on ABC in around Christmas time in 2000. The televised concert took in 10.5 million viewers. The DVD was certified gold by the RIAA and platinum in Australia.
Christina Aguilera  Genie Gets Her Wish  Genie Gets Her Wish is a music DVD by Christina Aguilera. It features her performing her #1 single, Genie in a Bottle, rare studio footage, live concert performances and exclusive peeks backstage. The DVD was certified Platinum by the RIAA.
Christina Aguilera  Hello (Follow Your Own Star)  Hello is a song written by Christina Aguilera, Robert Hoffman, Heather Holley for promoting new car model of Mercedes-Benz A-Class, back in summer 2004. The song was originally going to be released as an official single, but was not pushed through due to Christina having started her next musical project, Back to Basics.
Christina Aguilera  Back to Basics (Christina Aguilera album)  Back to Basics is the third full-length English studio album by American singer Christina Aguilera. The album was released on August 15, 2006 in the United States and Canada, on August 9, 2006 in Japan, on August 12 in Australia, and on several dates in Europe, starting on August 9, 2006, and ending on August 22, 2006. The album features what Aguilera describes as a throwback to the 20s, 30s, and 40s-style jazz, blues, and feel-good soul music, but with a modern twist.  The album has yielded three commercial singles: Ain't No Other Man, Hurt and Candyman. Slow Down Baby was used as a promotional single to promote her tour in Australia and Oh Mother was released as the album's fourth single in some parts of Europe. The album made Aguilera's second U.S. non-consecutive number-one album. The album received a nomination for Best Pop Vocal Album at the Grammy Awards and won Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for Ain't No Other Man. Back to Basics was her first studio album since 2002's Stripped. It was her first album to reach number one album in the United States after 1999's Christina Aguilera, selling 346,000 copies in the U.S. and 615,000 copies worldwide in the first week. As September 2010, The album has sold over 7.5 million copies worldwide.
Christina Aguilera  Back to Basics: Live and Down Under  Back to Basics: Live And Down Under is a concert tour DVD by American pop singer-songwriter Christina Aguilera.
Christina Aguilera  Keeps Gettin' Better: A Decade of Hits  Keeps Gettin' Better: A Decade of Hits is the first greatest hits album by pop singer Christina Aguilera. The compilation contains the biggest hits from all of the singer's studio albums released to date: Christina Aguilera (1999), Mi Reflejo (2000), Stripped (2002) and Back to Basics (2006), as well as two new tracks and two re-made tracks. The album was released on November 7, 2008 in Europe, and on November 11, 2008 in the United States, exclusively in Target stores. It was later released worldwide throughout November 2008. The album also has a deluxe edition that includes a DVD with 10 music videos and a slightly different cover, with a yellow border.
Christina Aguilera  Bionic (Christina Aguilera album)  Bionic is the fourth studio album by American pop singer Christina Aguilera, released on June 8, 2010, through RCA Records. The 18-song album sees Aguilera collaborate with a new range of producers and songwriters including Tricky Stewart, Polow da Don and Samuel Dixon who have each produced three songs for the album as well crossing over from several different musical styles including R&amp;B, pop, electropop, and synthpop. Bionic is the singer's first studio album in four years since Back to Basics (2006) and was preceded by lead single, Not Myself Tonight which reached top 40 in most countries. Upon release, the album received mixed reviews from music critics. Some praised Aguilera for being daring and experiemental whilst others felt that she was heavily influenced by her collaborators which resulted in inconsistency and genericity. In the United States it debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 albums chart with sales of 110,000 copies, becoming her lowest charting album on the chart. Bionic made UK chart history by debuting at number one with the lowest seven-day sales for a number one album in eight years. In its second week the album made chart history for a second time by falling twenty-eight places, thus registering the single largest weekly decline for a number one album in UK chart history.
Christina Aguilera  Walk Away (Christina Aguilera song)  Walk Away is a song written by Christina Aguilera, Scott Storch and Matt Morris, and recorded for Aguilera's second studio album, Stripped (2002).
Christina Aguilera  Glam (Christina Aguilera Song)  Glam is a song from American pop singer Christina Aguilera's fourth studio album Bionic. It is described by Marie Claire Magazine as a hip-hop throwback like Madonna's 'Vogue'.
Christina Aguilera  Justin & Christina  Justin &amp; Christina is an limited edition extended play album by American singers Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera. The album was released in the second quarter of 2003 to help promote the Justified/Stripped Tour. The EP was exclusively released to Target retail stores. It only consist of remixes of their biggest hits including one new track from each artist. The song, When, Where, How also appears on Spanish R&amp;B singer Tony Santos' debut album Alma Negra.
Cyndi Lauper  She's So Unusual  She's So Unusual is the debut studio album by American pop singer-songwriter Cyndi Lauper, released in 1983 by Portrait Records. The album catapulted Lauper to stardom with such hits as Girls Just Want to Have Fun, She Bop and Time After Time
Cyndi Lauper  True Colors (Cyndi Lauper album)  True Colors is the second album by American pop singer Cyndi Lauper, released in 1986. The album has sold 6 million copies worldwide.
Cyndi Lauper  A Night to Remember (Cyndi Lauper album)  A Night to Remember is popular 1980s icon and singer Cyndi Lauper's third album (as well as a song on the album). The album sold 3 million copies worldwide.
Cyndi Lauper  At Last (Cyndi Lauper album)  At Last is a Grammy Award-nominated 2003 album by Cyndi Lauper. It made the top 40 of the album charts in both the US and Australia. The album features a duet with Tony Bennett on Makin' Whoopee. Lauper co-produced the album with Russ Titelman. The US long box was available only at Costco or Sam's Club shops within the first two weeks when it was released. The song Walk On By
Cyndi Lauper  Shine (Cyndi Lauper album)  Shine was an album released exclusively in Japan in 2004 by singer Cyndi Lauper. The album was ready for release in 2001 but Edel Records, the label it was recorded with, folded. The leaked tracks from a demonstration disc quickly circulated on the Internet and by 2002 Lauper realized there was no point in trying to release it in a widespread fashion. Two EPs were released instead: One was also called Shine and the other was called Shine Remixes. The album expounds on the sound Lauper developed with her 1997 album Sisters of Avalon. Mostly pop songs, it flirts with electronica and New Wave while incorporating old-fashioned instruments like sitars and fiddles. The songs are not lyrically linked, and explore themes ranging from the Madonna-Whore Complex to celebrity life. The track It's Hard to be Me was penned about Anna Nicole Smith; Smith attempted to buy it as the theme song to her reality show, but Lauper declined.
Cyndi Lauper  Twelve Deadly Cyns...and Then Some  Twelve Deadly Cyns... and Then Some is musician Cyndi Lauper's greatest hits CD, released in 1994.
Cyndi Lauper  Hat Full of Stars  Hat Full of Stars is the fourth solo studio album released by Cyndi Lauper. The album has sold 3 million copies worldwide.
Cyndi Lauper  The Best Remixes  The Best Remixes is an E.P. released by Cyndi Lauper in 1989 on Epic/CBS Records, and re-released in 1996 on Epic/Sony Records. It was released exclusively in Japan and compiles six remixes of her top selling singles. It came in a regular jewel case with Japanese lyrics printed inside and peaked at 61 on the Japanese charts. The Best Remixes sold 250.000 copies worldwide and went gold in Japan.
Cyndi Lauper  Wanna Have Fun  Wanna Have Fun is an EP released by Cyndi Lauper in 1996. It was an inexpensively priced long-running EP issued mostly as a promotional tool for her album Sisters of Avalon, released the same year. It compiles songs from her previous albums, a combination of hits and non-charting album tracks. It was released in a normal jewel case and sold for around $5.99 American Dollars. It was produced by Sony Music Special Products. The album was repackaged with the same track listing but completely different artwork in 2003, again as a promotional tool but this time for her album At Last. The original artwork was tame and featured Lauper looking very composed and adult, whereas the new packaging utilized images of her from early in her career with her trademark wild look and hair. Inexplicably there were two versions of the cover for the reissued edition; they use the same photographs but feature different lettering artwork.
Cyndi Lauper  Sisters of Avalon  Sisters of Avalon is the fifth studio album released by singer and actress Cyndi Lauper. Thematically the album expounded on the issue of complacency and ignorance in popular culture and the discrimination of minorities, gays, and women. Songs like Love to Hate and You Don't Know address the entertainment industry and media and their corruption. Ballad of Cleo and Joe is a song about the double life of a cross dresser. Say a Prayer is about the AIDS epidemic. The record takes a deviation from previous projects, incorporating a blend of electronica production with a variety of antiquated instruments such as the guitar, zither, appalachian dulcimer, slide dulcimer, and omnichord. There is a permeating pagan theme highlighted by the track Mother, an ode to Gaea. The album was released in 1996 in Japan and in 1997 in other parts of the world. The Japanese version features a bonus track, Early Christmas Morning. The track Lollygagging is a hidden track which is nothing more than Lauper and her musicians attempting to record the song Hot Gets a Little Cold but making a musical mistake and laughing about it.
Cyndi Lauper  The Body Acoustic  The Body Acoustic is the ninth studio album released by Cyndi Lauper. It consists of ten previously released tracks which have been re-recorded and re-arranged acoustically, as well as two entirely new songs. The album title is a play on Walt Whitman's poem I Sing the Body Electric, with the word body in this case referring to Lauper's body of work as a recording artist. The album features a number of special guests, including Adam Lazzara, Shaggy, Sarah McLachlan, Jeff Beck, Vivian Green, Ani DiFranco, and Puffy AmiYumi. A DualDisc edition of the album was released which contained the entire album in enhanced stereo, four new videos directed by Lauper herself as well as a Behind The Scenes featurette on the making of the album.
Cyndi Lauper  Hey Now! (Remixes & Rarities)  Hey Now! (Remixes &amp; Rarities) is an album of club remixes by Cyndi Lauper, which also includes the rarities The World is Stone and You Have to Learn to Live Alone which have only been officially launched as singles in Europe.
Cyndi Lauper  The Essential Cyndi Lauper  The Essential Cyndi Lauper is a compilation by American pop icon Cyndi Lauper. It was released as part of Sony BMG's The Essential series in 2003. Five year after its initial release, Sony Music Entertainment Japan reissued the album accompanied with bonus DVD which features four music videos. The expanded edition debuted at the number 29 on the Japan's Oricon, and became her eighth top-40 charting albums in the country.
Cyndi Lauper  Merry Christmas...Have a Nice Life  Merry Christmas... Have a Nice Life is the sixth studio album released by Cyndi Lauper. It combines original compositions by Lauper and collaborator Jan Pulsford with traditional Christmas songs. Reportedly much of the vocal was recorded in Lauper's cedar closet as it had a reverb that she liked. Feels Like Christmas previously appeared on Lauper's 1993 album Hat Full of Stars. The album peaked at number seventy-five on the Japanese Albums Chart.
Cyndi Lauper  The Great Cyndi Lauper  The Great Cyndi Lauper Is a 2003 Greatest Hits Compilation, released by Cyndi Lauper. It is notable for having all of her greatest hits, as well as other noteworthy tracks. It is also the second compilation that contains her soundtrack contribution Hole in My Heart (All the Way to China) from her 1988 film Vibes. The album was certified Gold in Australia for sales of 35,000.
Cyndi Lauper  Bring Ya to the Brink  Bring Ya to the Brink is Cyndi Lauper's tenth studio album and was released on May 27, 2008 in the United States. The song Set Your Heart was released as a promo-only single in Japan in early 2008 and Same Ol' Story was the first official single released worldwide on May 6, 2008. Into the Nightlife was released as the album's second official single. In December 2008, the album was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Electronic/Dance Album.
Cyndi Lauper  Memphis Blues (album)  Memphis Blues is the eleventh studio album by American pop icon Cyndi Lauper, was released on June 22, 2010.
Dannii Minogue  Love and Kisses (album)  Love and Kisses is the international debut studio album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by MCA Records on June 3, 1991, in the United Kingdom. It contains a very similar track listing to the Australian debut album, Dannii, and was issued with different artwork and additional tracks. In November 1991, the album was remixed and reissued worldwide as Love and Kisses and.... In August 1991, the album was certified Gold in the UK, and its reissue has sold more than 75,000 units. The album was reissued again in 2009 featuring rare recordings and remixes.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Love and Kisses (album)  Love and Kisses is the international debut studio album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by MCA Records on June 3, 1991, in the United Kingdom. It contains a very similar track listing to the Australian debut album, Dannii, and was issued with different artwork and additional tracks. In November 1991, the album was remixed and reissued worldwide as Love and Kisses and.... In August 1991, the album was certified Gold in the UK, and its reissue has sold more than 75,000 units. The album was reissued again in 2009 featuring rare recordings and remixes.
Dannii Minogue  Neon Nights  Neon Nights is the fourth studio album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by London Records on March 17, 2003 and was primarily produced by Ian Masterson, Korpi &amp; Blackcell, Neïmo and Terry Ronald. It was re-issued in November 2007 with a bonus disc of remixes and different artwork.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Neon Nights  Neon Nights is the fourth studio album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by London Records on March 17, 2003 and was primarily produced by Ian Masterson, Korpi &amp; Blackcell, Neïmo and Terry Ronald. It was re-issued in November 2007 with a bonus disc of remixes and different artwork.
Dannii Minogue  The Singles (Dannii Minogue album)  The Singles is a greatest hits compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records on November 9, 1998 in Australia. Since the compilation was a budget release, it was ineligible to chart on the Australian albums chart.
Danielle Jane Minogue  The Singles (Dannii Minogue album)  The Singles is a greatest hits compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records on November 9, 1998 in Australia. Since the compilation was a budget release, it was ineligible to chart on the Australian albums chart.
Dannii Minogue  Get Into You  Get Into You is the second album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by MCA Records on October 4, 1993 in the United Kingdom. The track Hold On was supposed to close the album as track 14 but was scrapped at the last minute. In 2009, it saw a release along with two other unreleased tracks on the album's Deluxe Edition.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Get Into You  Get Into You is the second album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by MCA Records on October 4, 1993 in the United Kingdom. The track Hold On was supposed to close the album as track 14 but was scrapped at the last minute. In 2009, it saw a release along with two other unreleased tracks on the album's Deluxe Edition.
Dannii Minogue  Girl (Dannii Minogue album)  Girl is the third studio album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Eternal Records on September 8, 1997 in the United Kingdom. In November 2007, the album was reissued with a bonus disc of remixes by Rhino Entertainment
Danielle Jane Minogue  Girl (Dannii Minogue album)  Girl is the third studio album by Australian pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Eternal Records on September 8, 1997 in the United Kingdom. In November 2007, the album was reissued with a bonus disc of remixes by Rhino Entertainment
Dannii Minogue  U.K. Remixes  U.K. Remixes is a remix album by Australian pop&ndash;dance singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Alpha International and Mushroom Records on September 21, 1991 in Japan. Despite the album name, none of the remixes included were released in the United Kingdom, either on an album or CD single, as all are unique to the album.
Danielle Jane Minogue  U.K. Remixes  U.K. Remixes is a remix album by Australian pop&ndash;dance singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Alpha International and Mushroom Records on September 21, 1991 in Japan. Despite the album name, none of the remixes included were released in the United Kingdom, either on an album or CD single, as all are unique to the album.
Dannii Minogue  The Hits & Beyond  The Hits &amp; Beyond is a compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Dannii Minogue, released by All Around the World Records on June 19, 2006. It was a compilation of greatest hits and new tracks. The eight new tracks, plus the two b-sides from the 'Perfection' and 'So Under Pressure' singles, later appeared on her next studio album Club Disco.
Danielle Jane Minogue  The Hits & Beyond  The Hits &amp; Beyond is a compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Dannii Minogue, released by All Around the World Records on June 19, 2006. It was a compilation of greatest hits and new tracks. The eight new tracks, plus the two b-sides from the 'Perfection' and 'So Under Pressure' singles, later appeared on her next studio album Club Disco.
Dannii Minogue  Dannii (album)  Dannii is the debut album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in October 1990 for the Australian market. The album was released in Japan under the title Party Jam, and later released in the European market with a slightly altered track listing, and entitled Love and Kisses.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Dannii (album)  Dannii is the debut album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in October 1990 for the Australian market. The album was released in Japan under the title Party Jam, and later released in the European market with a slightly altered track listing, and entitled Love and Kisses.
Dannii Minogue  Party Jam  Party Jam is the re-titled debut album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue, released by Alpha Records in April 1991 for the Japanese market. The album was originally released the previous year in Australia under the title Dannii.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Party Jam  Party Jam is the re-titled debut album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue, released by Alpha Records in April 1991 for the Japanese market. The album was originally released the previous year in Australia under the title Dannii.
Dannii Minogue  Dannii Minogue: The Video Collection  Dannii Minogue: The Video Collection is a DVD released by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released on 5 November 2007 in the United Kingdom by Warner Music Group. The video album features music videos, live performances and previously unreleased footage.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Dannii Minogue: The Video Collection  Dannii Minogue: The Video Collection is a DVD released by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released on 5 November 2007 in the United Kingdom by Warner Music Group. The video album features music videos, live performances and previously unreleased footage.
Dannii Minogue  Club Disco  Club Disco is the fifth studio album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by All Around the World as a digital download on November 5, 2007. A double disc was released in Australia on May 27, 2008 which included a bonus CD of remixes and Touch Me Like That as the first track. The heavily inspired 80s disco album had six singles, You Won't Forget About Me, Perfection, So Under Pressure, I Can't Sleep At Night, He's The Greatest Dancer and Touch Me Like That. The album had moderate success in the UK and a minor success in Australia. Despite sales, the album did not show up on any charts. In the UK, it was ineligible for the charts as a digital-only release.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Club Disco  Club Disco is the fifth studio album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by All Around the World as a digital download on November 5, 2007. A double disc was released in Australia on May 27, 2008 which included a bonus CD of remixes and Touch Me Like That as the first track. The heavily inspired 80s disco album had six singles, You Won't Forget About Me, Perfection, So Under Pressure, I Can't Sleep At Night, He's The Greatest Dancer and Touch Me Like That. The album had moderate success in the UK and a minor success in Australia. Despite sales, the album did not show up on any charts. In the UK, it was ineligible for the charts as a digital-only release.
Dannii Minogue  Unleashed (Dannii Minogue album)  Unleashed is a compilation album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Rhino Entertainment and Warner Music UK on November 5, 2007. As this was a budget release compilation it was ineligible for the UK Albums chart.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Unleashed (Dannii Minogue album)  Unleashed is a compilation album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It was released by Rhino Entertainment and Warner Music UK on November 5, 2007. As this was a budget release compilation it was ineligible for the UK Albums chart.
Dannii Minogue  The Videos (Dannii Minogue)  The Videos is a video album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released on April 12, 1999 by Mushroom Records in Australia. This was a buget release, released at the same time of The Singles &amp; The Remixes. The video features all Minogue's promo music videos up to 1998.
Danielle Jane Minogue  The Videos (Dannii Minogue)  The Videos is a video album by Australian singer Dannii Minogue. It was released on April 12, 1999 by Mushroom Records in Australia. This was a buget release, released at the same time of The Singles &amp; The Remixes. The video features all Minogue's promo music videos up to 1998.
Dannii Minogue  The Early Years (Dannii Minogue album)  The Early Years is a compilation album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It has album tracks from Minogue's first two albums, released and unreleased versions.
Danielle Jane Minogue  The Early Years (Dannii Minogue album)  The Early Years is a compilation album by Australian dance-pop singer Dannii Minogue. It has album tracks from Minogue's first two albums, released and unreleased versions.
Dannii Minogue  The 1995 Sessions  The 1995 Sessions is a 2009 compilation album consisting of previously unreleased demo tracks previously recorded by Australian singer Dannii Minogue fourteen years earlier. It has been be released by Palare on 7 December 2009. The album consists of rare and previously unheard songs recorded for Minogue's third studio album.
Danielle Jane Minogue  The 1995 Sessions  The 1995 Sessions is a 2009 compilation album consisting of previously unreleased demo tracks previously recorded by Australian singer Dannii Minogue fourteen years earlier. It has been be released by Palare on 7 December 2009. The album consists of rare and previously unheard songs recorded for Minogue's third studio album.
Debbie Harry  Koo Koo  Koo Koo is the debut solo album by Debbie Harry, released in August 1981.
Debbie Harry  Rockbird  Rockbird is the second solo album by the American singer Debbie Harry.
Debbie Harry  Def, Dumb and Blonde  Def, Dumb &amp; Blonde is the third solo album by Deborah Harry, which saw Harry reverting from Debbie to Deborah for her professional name. Released in October 1989, it was produced by a variety of producers including Mike Chapman, who had previously produced the last four Blondie albums.
Debbie Harry  Debravation  Debravation is the fourth solo album by Deborah Harry. Released in 1993, the album reached no. 24 in the UK. It was also the final album Harry made whilst signed to the Chrysalis label, thus ending a successful partnership that began with Blondie and had endured for over 15 years. The first single from the album was the dance track I Can See Clearly, which reached no.23 in the UK. The second single, ballad Strike Me Pink, had a controversial promotional video that was banned for being too disturbing - it featured a man in a glass tank filled with water, as Harry sits and watches him drown. The U.S. version of the album contained two additional tracks. My Last Date (With You) includes instrumental backing from R.E.M. (signed to Warner Bros. Records, a sister label to Sire and Reprise). Debravation was re-issued in 2005 by label Wounded Bird Records.
Debbie Harry  Necessary Evil (album)  Necessary Evil, is the fifth solo album by the American singer Deborah Harry. Released in September 2007, it is Harry's first solo album in 14 years. The album contains 14 tracks (17 tracks in some territories), including the first single Two Times Blue, released on the iTunes Store June 6, 2007. Harry promoted the album on Cyndi Lauper's True Colors Tour 2007, performing a number of songs from the album. Upon its release in the UK, it debuted at number 86. In the US, it debuted at #37 on the independent chart. In several interviews, Harry said the album was recorded slowly. At first, the project was just a handful of songs from over a few years that she'd never intended to grow into a full album. However, before she knew it, she was working with a production team and found herself on the Eleven Seven Music label. The initial release date was set for the end of summer, but it was continuously pushed back until its release in autumn. On January 18, 2008, an official music video for If I Had You was released and on Harry's official blog, she stated the song was the planned second single.
Debbie Harry  Most of All – The Best of Deborah Harry  Most of All - The Best of Deborah Harry is a compilation album of recordings by Debbie Harry, released by Chrysalis Records/EMI shortly after the reformed Blondie had topped the charts all over the world with their comeback single Maria. The compilation gathers material from Harry's four solo albums for the Chrysalis label, Koo Koo, Rockbird, Def, Dumb and Blonde, and Debravation; and unlike 1998's Deborah Harry Collection, it contains most of the singles issued between the years 1981 and 1993, including Harry's biggest solo hits French Kissin' in the USA and I Want That Man. Most of All also includes non-album singles like Rush Rush, Feel the Spin, and her 1990 duet with Iggy Pop, Well, Did You Evah!, as well alternative single mixes not available on the regular studio albums. With the new millennium only one month away, EMI issued remixed dance versions of Harry's 1989 hit I Want That Man to promote the album, with the updated mixes by D-Bop and Almighty both cleverly accentuating the first line of the chorus: ... here comes the twenty-first century..... Most Of All concludes with two of these mixes.
Debbie Harry  Deborah Harry Collection  Deborah Harry Collection is a compilation album of recordings by Debbie Harry, released by Dutch budget price label Disky Communications in 1998. Deborah Harry Collection was re-issued with new artwork by EMI's mid-price label EMI Gold under the title French Kissin' - The Collection in 2004.
Debbie Harry  French Kissin' – The Collection  French Kissin' - The Collection is a compilation album of recordings by Debbie Harry, released by EMI's mid-price label EMI Gold in 2004. The album was previously issued by Dutch label Disky with different artwork under the title Deborah Harry Collection.
Dido  No Angel  No Angel is the debut album by pop singer/songwriter Dido. Originally released in 1999, it found a mass audience in 2001. As of 2005, the album sold 21 million copies worldwide.
Dido  Life for Rent  Life for Rent is the second studio album by the British singer-songwriter Dido, released by Arista Records in on 29 September 2003, and was produced by her, her brother Rollo and American songwriter Rick Nowels. It was certified 7x Platinum by the BPI; and sold over 12 millions copies worldwide, making it the fourth best selling album worldwide of 2003.
Dido  Odds & Ends  Odds &amp; Ends is Dido's first recording album, which was never released officially. In 1995, Dido began recording demo tracks which were put together on a collection entitled Odds &amp; Ends and sent out by Nettwerk management. Nettwerk had signed her after she was brought to their attention by her collaborations with Faithless (Dido co-wrote and provided vocals for album tracks, such as Flowerstand Man and Hem of His Garment) and the UK dance act spearheaded by her brother, Rollo Armstrong. The collection was released by Nettwerk on CD-R acetate in 1995 and featured a mixture of finished productions and demo versions which she later considered for release on her debut album, released in 1999 as No Angel. Odds &amp; Ends brought her to the attention of Arista Records, who signed her in the United States, striking a deal with her brother's record label, Cheeky Records, to co-sign her. The track Believe (Flu Season Mix) is a remix of the song Take My Hand, while three of the other tracks were included as bonus tracks on some editions of the album No Angel (see below), with the track Don't Think Of Me of that album appearing as a modified version of Sweet Eyed Baby. Give Me Strength later appeared on Over the Rhine's 2001 album Films For Radio.
Dido  Safe Trip Home  Safe Trip Home is the third studio album by Dido. It was released in the United Kingdom on 17 November 2008. The album features collaborations and production with Jon Brion, her brother Rollo Armstrong, Brian Eno, Mick Fleetwood, Citizen Cope and Questlove. The album was the 44th best-selling album worldwide of 2008, according to IFPI. The album was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical.
Dido  Live at Brixton Academy (Dido album)  For other albums with the same name see Live at Brixton Academy. Live at Brixton AcademyLive album by DidoReleased June 7, 2005 June 13, 2005 Recorded August, 2004, Brixton Academy, Brixton, London, EnglandGenre PopLength 91 mins 58 mins (Audio track)Label Arista, Cheeky, Sony BMGProducer Jacqui Edenbrow Alternate cover Cover art for Region 1 Live at Brixton Academy (released as Dido Live on Region 1) is a live album and DVD set by Dido, released on 2005. It was recorded over three nights in August, 2004, at Brixton Academy in London during the Life For Rent tour. The DVD release includes a bonus audio CD which contains twelve of the recorded tracks, in a slightly modified order.
Dieter Bohlen  Dieter: Der Film (soundtrack)  Dieter: Der Film is the soundtrack of the movie with the same name. The soundtrack was released the 3 March 2006, by Hansa Records. The soundtrack contains songs made exclusively by Dieter Bohlen, marking his comeback as singer, as since Here I Am (1997), he didn't released a solo album. Also, it contains the six first hit singles by Modern Talking: You're My Heart, You're My Soul, You Can Win If You Want, Cheri, Cheri Lady, Brother Louie, Atlantis is Calling (S.O.S. for Love) y Geronimo's Cadillac; and a never released before song, Shooting Star.
Don Henley  I Can't Stand Still  I Can't Stand Still is the first solo album by Don Henley, released in 1982 originally on Asylum Records then re-released in 1999 by Warner Bros. Records.
Don Henley  Building the Perfect Beast  Building the Perfect Beast is the second album by Don Henley, released in 1984.
Don Henley  The End of the Innocence  ), The End of the Innocence is the third album by Don Henley
Don Henley  Inside Job (album)  Inside Job is the fourth studio album by Don Henley, released in 2000. The song Goodbye to a River was apparently named after the book of the same title by John Graves. In the album's liner notes Henley wrote: Respect and gratitude to fellow Texan, John Graves, for his inspirational writing - Goodbye to a River (1960) and other books.
Don Henley  Actual Miles: Henley's Greatest Hits  Actual Miles: Henley's Greatest Hits is a greatest hits album by American singer/songwriter Don Henley, released in 1995.
Don Henley  One of These Nights: Boston 1993  One of These Nights: Boston 1993 is an album by Don Henley, a recording of a 1993 Labor Day benefit concert at Foxborough Stadium, Boston. Two of the tracks feature guest appearances by Jimmy Buffett. The album was released by Federalist Records Inc in 2000 (FRCD 2000-037).
Don Henley  The Very Best of Don Henley  The Very Best of Don Henley is the second compilation album by Don Henley, released in 2009 and his first release since Inside Job in 2000. A 'deluxe' version containing extra bonus tracks plus DVD material is also available.
Elena Paparizou  Iparhi Logos  Iparhi Logos is Greek singer Elena Paparizou's second studio album, released on April 12, 2006. Containing 29 songs on two discs, the album was certified gold in 5 weeks and platinum after 5 months of its release. It was certified platinum on December 1, 2006 at Iera Odos 30 where Paparizou was performing alongside Nino and Paschalis Terzis at the same certification party as the album The Game of Love. It was re-released on May 22, 2007 as Iparhi Logos: Platinum Edition with a bonus CD-single. The album to date, has been released physically in Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Germany, Austria, Taiwan, Switzerland, and Japan.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Iparhi Logos  Iparhi Logos is Greek singer Elena Paparizou's second studio album, released on April 12, 2006. Containing 29 songs on two discs, the album was certified gold in 5 weeks and platinum after 5 months of its release. It was certified platinum on December 1, 2006 at Iera Odos 30 where Paparizou was performing alongside Nino and Paschalis Terzis at the same certification party as the album The Game of Love. It was re-released on May 22, 2007 as Iparhi Logos: Platinum Edition with a bonus CD-single. The album to date, has been released physically in Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Germany, Austria, Taiwan, Switzerland, and Japan.
Elena Paparizou  Protereotita  Protereotita, is the debut solo album by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on August 25, 2004 by Sony Music Greece. The album's first single, Anapandites Kliseis, was released as a CD-single prior to the album's release and reached number 1 on the Greek IFPI singles chart. The album was also re-released twice in Greece, and once internationally as My Number One. Overall, there are five different editions available of the album. The original album was only a mild success, however, following Paparizou's victory in the Eurovision Song Contest the Euro Edition peaked at number one on the charts and was certified platinum by the IFPI. The album was later certified double platinum in early 2006; as IFPI was making a transition in lowering their sales thresholds at that time, this would imply sales of at least 60,000 copies, although sales of up to 87,000 have been claimed.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Protereotita  Protereotita, is the debut solo album by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on August 25, 2004 by Sony Music Greece. The album's first single, Anapandites Kliseis, was released as a CD-single prior to the album's release and reached number 1 on the Greek IFPI singles chart. The album was also re-released twice in Greece, and once internationally as My Number One. Overall, there are five different editions available of the album. The original album was only a mild success, however, following Paparizou's victory in the Eurovision Song Contest the Euro Edition peaked at number one on the charts and was certified platinum by the IFPI. The album was later certified double platinum in early 2006; as IFPI was making a transition in lowering their sales thresholds at that time, this would imply sales of at least 60,000 copies, although sales of up to 87,000 have been claimed.
Elena Paparizou  The Game of Love  The Game of Love is the Greek singer Elena Paparizou's third studio album, and first English-language international album. It was first released in Greece on 25 October 2006. The album was composed of 12 tracks and a bonus track; seven of these had been previously released on Paparizou's previous album Iparhi Logos, and another was released exclusively to Scandinavia as the official song of the European Athletics Championships. Five of the songs were just English translations of Greek songs as well as two covers. The album was Paparizou's second album in Scandinavia. The album has enjoyed mild success in Greece and Cyprus where it topped the charts and quickly attained platinum certification, while it failed to impress in other countries.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  The Game of Love  The Game of Love is the Greek singer Elena Paparizou's third studio album, and first English-language international album. It was first released in Greece on 25 October 2006. The album was composed of 12 tracks and a bonus track; seven of these had been previously released on Paparizou's previous album Iparhi Logos, and another was released exclusively to Scandinavia as the official song of the European Athletics Championships. Five of the songs were just English translations of Greek songs as well as two covers. The album was Paparizou's second album in Scandinavia. The album has enjoyed mild success in Greece and Cyprus where it topped the charts and quickly attained platinum certification, while it failed to impress in other countries.
Elena Paparizou  Fos (EP)  Fos is an EP by Greek artist, Elena Paparizou. It was released on 18 May 2007 by Sony BMG Greece and was featured as a bonus CD on the repackaged Yparhi Logos: Platinum Edition album. The CD single contains Fos, along with four other new tracks, including Mazi Sou and a cover of Le Temps des Fleurs. Mazi Sou is the only original song on the EP, the rest are covers. The CD-Single release went straight to number one in its release in Greece. The song, Fos, itself, was recorded in 2006 for the soundtrack of the new Greek Barbie and the 12 Dancing Pricess'movie, it is the Greek version of the song Shine by American singer Cassidy Ladden. The third CD on the Yparhi Logos: Platinum Edition album, was entitled Fos,and contained the five songs available on the single, and two bonus tracks.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Fos (EP)  Fos is an EP by Greek artist, Elena Paparizou. It was released on 18 May 2007 by Sony BMG Greece and was featured as a bonus CD on the repackaged Yparhi Logos: Platinum Edition album. The CD single contains Fos, along with four other new tracks, including Mazi Sou and a cover of Le Temps des Fleurs. Mazi Sou is the only original song on the EP, the rest are covers. The CD-Single release went straight to number one in its release in Greece. The song, Fos, itself, was recorded in 2006 for the soundtrack of the new Greek Barbie and the 12 Dancing Pricess'movie, it is the Greek version of the song Shine by American singer Cassidy Ladden. The third CD on the Yparhi Logos: Platinum Edition album, was entitled Fos,and contained the five songs available on the single, and two bonus tracks.
Elena Paparizou  Vrisko To Logo Na Zo  Vrisko To Logo Na Zo is the third Greek-language studio album and fourth studio album overall by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on June 12, 2008 by Sony BMG Greece. It was the first time that DON - K (Niclas Olausson and Toni Mavridis) had produced the entire album and that Paparizou had contributed to an album both musically and lyrically. It was also the first time that a duet was included on one of her solo albums. The album was re-released on December 22, 2008 as Vrisko To Logo Na Zo: The Deluxe Edition. The Deluxe Edition comes in a special rectangular case that contains the original CD and case, the Summer tour DVD, as well as a bonus poster with various photos from her summer tour. There were originally plans to release the album once again as a Special Edition with additional tracks including the digital single Tha Mai Allios, as well as many of her songs from the 2009 MAD Secret Concert, six new duets, and a duet with the Italian band Silky Sunday called Pothoi (Siga Psithirista). However, plans were changed with Paparizou now planning to release a brand new Greek studio album in early 2010.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Vrisko To Logo Na Zo  Vrisko To Logo Na Zo is the third Greek-language studio album and fourth studio album overall by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on June 12, 2008 by Sony BMG Greece. It was the first time that DON - K (Niclas Olausson and Toni Mavridis) had produced the entire album and that Paparizou had contributed to an album both musically and lyrically. It was also the first time that a duet was included on one of her solo albums. The album was re-released on December 22, 2008 as Vrisko To Logo Na Zo: The Deluxe Edition. The Deluxe Edition comes in a special rectangular case that contains the original CD and case, the Summer tour DVD, as well as a bonus poster with various photos from her summer tour. There were originally plans to release the album once again as a Special Edition with additional tracks including the digital single Tha Mai Allios, as well as many of her songs from the 2009 MAD Secret Concert, six new duets, and a duet with the Italian band Silky Sunday called Pothoi (Siga Psithirista). However, plans were changed with Paparizou now planning to release a brand new Greek studio album in early 2010.
Elena Paparizou  MAD Secret Concerts: Elena Paparizou  Mad Secret Concerts - Elena Paparizou is the second DVD video release by Greek pop singer, Elena Paparizou. It was recorded on December 13, 2005 as part of the television specials Mad Secret Concerts by MAD TV at the Iera Odos club, in Athens, Greece, and released on July 22, 2006 in Greece and Cyprus by Sony BMG Greece. The first radio single released from the album was Just Walk Away, which received a lot of radio success. The video premiered on May 20 on MAD TV.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  MAD Secret Concerts: Elena Paparizou  Mad Secret Concerts - Elena Paparizou is the second DVD video release by Greek pop singer, Elena Paparizou. It was recorded on December 13, 2005 as part of the television specials Mad Secret Concerts by MAD TV at the Iera Odos club, in Athens, Greece, and released on July 22, 2006 in Greece and Cyprus by Sony BMG Greece. The first radio single released from the album was Just Walk Away, which received a lot of radio success. The video premiered on May 20 on MAD TV.
Elena Paparizou  Number One (video)  Number One is the first DVD video release by Greek singer Elena Paparizou. It is a collection of all her music videos from the beginning of her solo career along with some extra videos. It was released one month before the final of Eurovision Song Contest 2005 where Paparizou won first place.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Number One (video)  Number One is the first DVD video release by Greek singer Elena Paparizou. It is a collection of all her music videos from the beginning of her solo career along with some extra videos. It was released one month before the final of Eurovision Song Contest 2005 where Paparizou won first place.
Elena Paparizou  Giro Apo T'Oneiro  Giro Apo T' Oniro is the fourth Greek-language studio album and fifth studio album overall by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on 29 March 2010 in Greece and Cyprus by Sony Music Greece. The album was released in both standard and deluxe editions, with the deluxe edition featuring a live DVD.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Giro Apo T'Oneiro  Giro Apo T' Oniro is the fourth Greek-language studio album and fifth studio album overall by Greek singer Elena Paparizou, released on 29 March 2010 in Greece and Cyprus by Sony Music Greece. The album was released in both standard and deluxe editions, with the deluxe edition featuring a live DVD.
Emma Bunton  Life in Mono  Life In Mono is the third studio album by English pop singer Emma Bunton. The album was originally set for a November release in the UK, however it was later pushed back to the 4 December 2006. Life In Mono, much like her previous album, Free Me, experimented with elements of 1960s pop music. For this particular album the musical arrangement was more directed towards the '60s French pop music, with some elements of British '60s pop and Motown. The first single taken from the album was a cover of Petula Clark's 1964 hit single Downtown, released on 13 November. Downtown is the 2006 BBC Children in Need official charity single. All I Need to Know was released as second single. Bunton had been working on her third release since 2005. The album's title track is a cover version of the hit Life in Mono by 1990s trip hop band Mono, best known through its usage in the 1998 film Great Expectations. The track Take Me to Another Town contains a sample from Herb Alpert
Emma Bunton  Free Me  Free Me is the second studio album by English pop singer-songwriter Emma Bunton, released in the United Kingdom and Canada on 9 February 2004 and in the United States on 25 January 2005.
Emma Bunton  A Girl Like Me (Emma Bunton album)  A Girl Like Me is the debut solo album by English pop singer-songwriter Emma Bunton, released in the United Kingdom on 16 April 2001 by Virgin Records. The album debuted and peaked at number four on the UK Albums Chart, with 21,500 copies sold in its first week—the highest album debut from a solo Spice Girl. Although initial success was promising, A Girl Like Me fell down the chart quickly. However, singles What Took You So Long?, Take My Breath Away, and We're Not Gonna Sleep Tonight helped the album stay on the UK Albums Chart for several weeks. A Girl Like Me has sold around 125,928 copies in the United Kingdom, becoming the one hundred and forty-seventh best-selling album of 2001 there. It has also sold 500,000 copies worldwide. Lacklustre sales may be partially explained by the fact that the album was not released in Latin America (except in Brazil, Argentina, and Chile) and North America. Although having a low peak in Australia it managed to be certified gold by the ARIA.
Fergie  The Dutchess  The Dutchess is the debut studio album by American R&amp;B singer Fergie, who is a member of the Black Eyed Peas. The album was first released in the U.S. on September 19, 2006. The Dutchess was available both as an edited, clean version and a Parental Advisory version and was released internationally quickly following the U.S. release. As of 2008, the album has sold more than six million copies worldwide. Due to the success of the album, it was re-released with bonus tracks and new covers in Japan, Australia in 2007 and later the United States in 2008. The album produced 5 top five singles in the U.S. , including three number-one hits on the Billboard Hot 100, London Bridge, Big Girls Don't Cry, and Glamorous, as well as the number two single Fergalicious and the number five single Clumsy. All five of the aforementioned singles have sold over two million digital downloads each in the U.S. , thus setting a new record in the digital era for the most multi-platinum singles from one album. The song, All That I Got (The Make Up Song) has been remixed slightly and used as one of the two main music themes for Tyra Banks' talk show, Tyra.
Fergie  Here I Come (Fergie song)  Here I Come is a song by pop singer Fergie featuring will.i. am, produced by will.i. am for her first solo album The Dutchess (2006). It was used on the commercials that advertised the debut of the new channel CW and in a Motorola Rockr commercial for Latin America and Portugal featuring Fergie. The song of the debut network of 2006 following the closure of UPN and The WB.
George Michael  Patience (George Michael album)  Patience is a 2004 album by George Michael. The much delayed follow-up to Older, it was very successful, debuting at number 1 on the UK Albums Chart, and at number 2 in Australia on March 22, 2004. The work became one of the fastest selling albums in the UK, selling over 200,000 copies in the first week alone. The record reached the Top 5 on most European charts, and peaked at number 12 in the United States. It is considered as the album of George Michael's comeback to the spotlight in the new millennium, receiving a great critical acclaim. It sold around 7 million copies worldwide, spanning 6 hit singles (the first two of which, Freeek! and Shoot the Dog, were released as early as 2002 already by Polydor, when the album was originally due, whereas the last, John and Elvis Are Dead, was only sold through the Internet).
George Michael  Songs from the Last Century  Songs from the Last Century is an album of cover versions by singer George Michael and acclaimed producer Phil Ramone, released in December 1999). It consists mainly of old standards, plus new interpretations of more recent popular songs, such as Roxanne and Miss Sarajevo.
George Michael  Faith (George Michael album)  Faith is George Michael's first solo album, released in October 1987 via Columbia Records/Epic Records. The album is considered by some to be one of the greatest albums in pop music history, and won several awards including the Grammy Award for Album of the Year in 1989. The album was an instant commercial success in the United States, selling more than one million copies in its debut, the most copies ever sold in a week by a British pop artist. To date, the album has sold over twenty million copies worldwide, and received diamond certification from the Recording Industry Association of America. Faith spawned six top-five singles that substantially helped it dominate the chart of 1988. In 2003, the album was ranked number 480 on Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. In 1989, when Billboard magazine came out with its special issue ranking the top records and artists of the year 1988, the awards were largely dominated by George Michael. Michael surpassed showing
George Michael  Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1  Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1 is the second solo album from British pop star George Michael (on this album, it is spelled as George Michæl), released in September 1990. Following the massive worldwide commercial success of his first album Faith, this release found Michael awash in somewhat of an identity crisis, and a sudden and desperate bid to quickly create a new image for himself as a serious-minded artist (fresh off the heretofore-omnipresent George Michael media-blitz express), while still generating sales. Seemingly torn at first between his previous role as the camera-friendly media darling and his new role as abhorrer of all things visual, the album's title won out as a clear indication of his desire to be taken more seriously as a songwriter and artist in general (although cameras were allowed access to the recording studio on a number of occasions, the results of which ended up on an MTV Rockumentary soon afterward). The album was deemed by many as a reverse-psychological tactic to generate renewed interest from an ever larger (and more adult) fan base, but ended up a commercial disappointment sales-wise, compared to Michael's track record to date. Critical opinion of the album was mixed, with some hailing it as George's magnum opus, and a slight majority panning it as pretentious, overly plaintive, and boring.
George Michael  Older (album)  Older is the third studio album from George Michael, released in Europe on 13 May 1996 (and one day later in the United States). It was his first album since 1990's Listen Without Prejudice, Vol. 1 – the five-and-a-half-year gap was due to the controversial legal battle
George Michael  Ladies & Gentlemen: The Best of George Michael  Ladies &amp; Gentlemen: The Best of George Michael is a greatest hits collection released by George Michael in 1998. The collection of 28 songs (29 songs are included on the European and Australian release) are separated into two halves, with each CD of the double set containing music of a particular theme and mood. The first CD, titled For the Heart, predominantly contains Michael's hit ballads, while the second CD, For the Feet, comprises mostly his popular dance tunes. Ladies &amp; Gentlemen is notable for containing a large number of compilation tracks and duets that have not previously appeared on a George Michael album, including his U.S. number-one duet with Aretha Franklin, I Knew You Were Waiting (For Me), previously available on Aretha Franklin's 1986 album Aretha; Desafinado, the duet in Portuguese with Brazilian legendary singer Astrud Gilberto; and the Elton John duet Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me, from Elton's 1993 album Duets. Ladies &amp; Gentlemen was released by Michael through Sony Music Entertainment as a condition of severing contractual ties with the label (Michael departed Sony with a great deal of acrimony and publicity prior to the release of Older in 1996). He would later return to Sony to release his 2004 album Patience. Outside was the first single from the album. The song was a humorous look at his arrest shortly before the release of the album for soliciting a policeman in a public restroom. As, Michael's duet with Mary J. Blige
George Michael  Five Live (EP)  Five Live, released in 1993, features five (in some countries, where it is considered to be a reduced-length long-playing album, six) tracks, performed by George Michael, Queen, and Lisa Stansfield. Somebody to Love and These Are the Days of Our Lives (both also available on video) were recorded at the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert, held on April 20, 1992, at Wembley Stadium. In particular, the live performance of the opener gave Michael a lot more credibility as an adult artist, making him one of the few acts of the evening to be praised for fitting Mercury's shoes. All proceeds from the sale of the EP benefited the Mercury Phoenix Trust. Sales of the record were in fact very strong throughout Europe, where it debuted at Number One, in the UK Singles Chart, and several European countries, either considered as a single, an extended play, or an LP. Chart success in the U.S. was far less spectacular, but the EP still peaked at Number 30 on the Billboard 200. An edited shorter version of Killer and Papa Was a Rollin' Stone, a live medley already (performed by George at the Wembley Arena), was released by George Michael as a further independent single, in some territories only. The singer also shot a video for it, where he did not appear personally though (it was during the time when the artist refused to exploit his outward look, which he thought would distract the audience from the music, his main concern). The video was directed by Marcus Nispel. While These Are the Days of Our Lives, played by Queen, is actually a duet between George Michael and Lisa Stansfield, the sixth optional track is represented by a short performance by Queen, entitled Dear Friends, originally sung by Freddie Mercury himself. Recorded in 1974, this constitutes the one studio recording on the record. Usually, countries where the six-track work is distributed consider it to be as a short LP, whereas those where the five-track (hence, its title) work is available generally tend to see it as an EP or even (if Killer/Papa Was a Rollin' Stone was not marketed independently in those same territories) as a particularly long or content-rich single. However, no matter its status, whether an EP, a short album or a long single, the work as a whole sold an estimated 5 million copies worldwide.
George Michael  Twenty Five (album)  Twenty Five is singer George Michael's 2006 greatest hits album, which celebrates the 25th anniversary of his music career. It was released on 13 November 2006 via Sony BMG
George Michael  Hand to Mouth (song)  Hand to Mouth is a song written by George Michael that was recorded for his 1987 album Faith. It was the B-side of single Faith, which was the best-selling single of the year 1988 in the USA. The song is known for its political motivation and Michael's gratitude to America. The mood of the song is low-key throughout, except for brief moments of solace in the beginning of each chorus. Hand to Mouth soberly tells two stories of lives denied the American Dream: one who finally blows his top and shoots at people, the other a woman who has no one to turn to and becomes a prostitute. The criticism of Reaganite America is strong here: I believe in the gods of America. I believe in the land of the free. But no one told me that the gods believe in nothing, so with empty hands I pray.  This track features one of Michael's highest vocals; he said in his autobiography that the song was meant to be a single replacing his biggest hit Faith but due to negative publicity of his friends, he gave up the idea. It was later covered by the American folk singer and songwriter Joan Baez on her album Speaking of Dreams.
George Michael  Look at Your Hands  Look at Your Hands is a 1987 song co-written and performed by George Michael. It was released on the album Faith and has remained a popular concert song for Michael in the Faith World Tour. As with some of the other songs on the Faith album, including Monkey and I Want Your Sex, 'Look at Your Hands was originally recorded Back in Michael's Wham! earlier days. In the song, George Michael is trying to seduce a beautiful married woman whose husband is ugly, fat and careless. The track is the only song from the album featuring David Austin as a co-writer beside George Michael.
Geri Halliwell  Schizophonic (Geri Halliwell album)  Schizophonic is the debut solo album by pop singer Geri Halliwell. The album was released after her split from popular girl group the Spice Girls. The term schizophonic is a portmanteau of the Greek words schizo split, divide and phonic sound and also seemingly a play on the word schizophrenic and the musical term schizophonia.
Geri Halliwell  Scream If You Wanna Go Faster  Scream If You Wanna Go Faster is the second solo album by British pop singer Geri Halliwell. It was released by EMI Records on May 14, 2001 and yielded the UK number-one single It's Raining Men. Although not as successful as her debut album Schizophonic, it reached a peak position of number five on the UK album chart. With first-week sales of 35,000 copies and total sales of 155,000, it became the 127th best selling album of 2001 in the UK. It eventually received an American release digitally via the iTunes Store on October 30, 2007, despite the relatively poor sales in the UK which ensured Gold status only. Halliwell described the album as bright and colourful;
Geri Halliwell  Passion (Geri Halliwell album)  Passion is the third album by English pop singer Geri Halliwell, released on 6 June, 2005) in Europe, Asia, Latin America, and Canada. Two singles were released from the album, Ride It and Desire, which both made the UK top 30. Critics praised Halliwell's improved voice but the album was a commercial failure, peaking at no.41 and charting for only one week on the UK album chart. Tracks for the album were recorded over an extended period between 2001 and 2004 with a number of producers. Songs co-written by Halliwell during her period which did not appear on the final album include 100% Pure Love, Set Me Off, Geri's Got Her Groove Back,Turn It On. Halliwell originally wanted to record the track Some Girls for the album, but the track was given to Rachel Stevens instead who had a Top 3 hit with it in 2004.
Glenn Frey  No Fun Aloud  No Fun Aloud is the first solo album by Glenn Frey, released in 1982.
Glenn Frey  The Allnighter (album)  The Allnighter is the second album by Glenn Frey, released in 1984.
Glenn Frey  Soul Searchin'  Soul Searchin' is the third album by Glenn Frey, released in 1988.
Glenn Frey  Strange Weather  Strange Weather is the fourth album by Glenn Frey, released in 1992.
Glenn Frey  Glenn Frey Live  Glenn Frey Live is a live album by Glenn Frey, released in 1993.
Glenn Frey  Solo Collection  Solo Collection is a greatest hits album of Glenn Frey's solo career, released in 1995.
Gloria Estefan  Cuts Both Ways  Cuts Both Ways is the first studio album credited to Gloria Estefan as a solo artist, but is the twelfth overall for her and her band the Miami Sound Machine, released in 1989; on the spine label of the album's vinyl LP format, it credits Estefan and the band, just like its predecessor album, Let it Loose.
Gloria Estefan  Exitos De Gloria Estefan  Exitos de Gloria Estefan is the first compilation album released by Gloria Estefan, but is the second solo release and the thirteenth overall, released in 1990.
Gloria Estefan  Into the Light (Gloria Estefan album)  Into the Light is a concept album, the second studio solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the fourteenth overall, released in 1991.
Gloria Estefan  Gloria Estefan Greatest Hits  Gloria Estefan Greatest Hits is the second compilation album released by Cuban-American singer Gloria Estefan. It is her fourth album released after going solo. The album was released in 1992.
Gloria Estefan  Christmas Through Your Eyes  Christmas Through Your Eyes is the fourth studio solo album released by Latin-American singer Gloria Estefan, and sixteenth overall, in 1993.
Gloria Estefan  Mi Tierra  Mi Tierra is the third studio solo album and first Latin solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is her fifteenth overall, released in 1993.
Gloria Estefan  Party Time!  Party Time! is a special promotional CD release by pop singer Gloria Estefan. Released in 1998, Party Time! was sold only in Target department stores as a promotion for the Gloria! album. A complementary Spanish-language remix single, Bailando!, was released at the same time, again sold only at Target. Both are now considered rare by collectors. There is only one track on the CD: The Party Time Megamix, a 22-minute megamix of nine of Gloria's biggest hits up to that point, including a few with Miami Sound Machine. Several of these songs were redone in a House or Techno style.
Gloria Estefan  Hold Me Thrill Me Kiss Me  Hold Me Thrill Me Kiss Me is the fifth studio solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the seventeenth overall, released in 1994 with the sales of 4.000.000 copies worldwide.
Gloria Estefan  Abriendo Puertas  Abriendo Puertas is a 1995 album released by Gloria Estefan. It is her sixth studio album and second Spanish language album released.
Gloria Estefan  Destiny (Gloria Estefan album)  Destiny is the seventh studio solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the nineteenth of her career overall. It was released in 1996.
Gloria Estefan  Best of Gloria Estefan  Best of Gloria Estefan is the second compilation solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twentieth overall, released in 1997. The compilation was released only in France and Switzerland.
Gloria Estefan  Gloria!  gloria! is the eighth studio album released by American singer-songwriter Gloria Estefan, released in 1998 by Epic Records.
Gloria Estefan  Alma Caribeña  Alma Caribeña is the ninth studio solo album and third Spanish album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twenty-second overall, released in 2000.
Gloria Estefan  Greatest Hits Vol. II (Gloria Estefan album)  Greatest Hits Vol. II is the third English greatest hits album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the fourth compilation and twenty-third album overall, released in 2001.
Gloria Estefan  Unwrapped (album)  Unwrapped is the tenth studio solo album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twenty-fourth album overall, released in 2003.
Gloria Estefan  Unwrapped: Remixes  Unwrapped: Remixes was a Bonus CD/EP that was available with purchase of the Live &amp; Unwrapped DVD during Pay Per View broadcasts and purchases of the DVD at shows during the Live &amp; Re-Wrapped Tour in the Summer 2004. This album contained a set of remixes from Gloria's last album Unwrapped, the album was not released for commercial purposes, was a bonus CD/EP to the sales of the live gig in Las Vegas.
Gloria Estefan  Amor y Suerte: Exitos Romanticos  Amor y Suerte: Exitos Romanticos is the fourth compilation album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twentieth-fifth album overall, released in 2004. At non-Latin countries the album received the name of: Amor y Suerte: The Spanish Love Songs
Gloria Estefan  Oye Mi Canto!: Los Grandes Exitos  Oye Mi Canto!: Los Grandes Exitos is the fifth compilation album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twentieth-sixth album overall, released in 2006.
Gloria Estefan  The Very Best of Gloria Estefan  The Very Best of Gloria Estefan is the sixth compilation album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twentieth-seventh album overall, released in 2006.
Gloria Estefan  The Essential Gloria Estefan  The Essential Gloria Estefan is the seventh compilation album released by American singer Gloria Estefan, but is the twentieth-eighth album overall, released in 2006. It is part of Sony BMG's The Essential series. The album included a special bonus interview by Internet, in which Estefan's talks about every song of the album. On August 31, 2010, the album was reissued with a bonus disc and retitled Essential 3.0. The 3rd (bonus) disc contains 8 songs including Betcha Say That, but it is unknown at this point in time whether the disc contains the 3:37 single edit or the 4:37 album version of Betcha Say That.
Gloria Estefan  90 Millas  90 Millas (90 Miles) is the tenth studio release by Cuban-American singer-songwriter Gloria Estefan. It was released on September 17, 2007 by SonyBMG. This album is a recall to Estefan's ultimate tribute to her Cuban roots album Mi Tierra (1993). The albums contains a selection of various Cuban rhythms mixed with Latin-American contemporary pop, thought the main influence being the Cuban sound behind every track. Thought it's considered the second part to her Mi Tierra album, this album it's more focused on inspirational and fun songs, as Mi Tierra was more a romantic and love album. The album commercially and critically acclaimed as one of her best Latin releases, was supported with a massive promotion throughout the world. The album also made the first appearance of Estefan in the Billboard charts within the Top 40, after being absent of it since Unwrapped
Gloria Estefan  Bailando!  Bailando! is a special promotional CD release by pop singer Gloria Estefan. Released in 1998, Bailando! was sold only in Target department stores as a promotion for the Gloria! album. A complementary English-language remix single, Party Time!, was released at the same time, again sold only at Target. Both are now considered rare by collectors. There is only one track on the CD: The Bailando Megamix, a 22-minute megamix of seven of Gloria's biggest Latin hits up to that point, including only one song in English-Language. Several of these songs were redone in a House or Techno style.
Gloria Estefan  Let It Loose (Miami Sound Machine album)  Let It Loose is the 10th studio album released by Gloria Estefan and the Miami Sound Machine released in 1987. The album was titled Anything for You in Europe with a different cover design.
Gloria Estefan  Twelve Inch Mixes (Gloria Estefan EP)  'Twelve Inch Mixes' was a collection of extended remixes of songs by Gloria Estefan.
Grace Jones  Nightclubbing  Nightclubbing is the fifth studio album by Grace Jones, released in 1981. It is the second of three post-disco albums that Jones made at Compass Point Studios in the Bahamas and became Jones' commercial breakthrough and also formed the basis of her groundbreaking concept tour A One Man Show. It claimed the number one slot on NME Album of the Year. The lead-off single for the album was Demolition Man written by Sting for Jones and also included on The Police's album Ghost in the Machine later in the year. The second single Pull Up to the Bumper
Grace Jones  Island Life  Island Life was Grace Jones' 1985 compilation album, featuring songs from her Island Records albums Portfolio, Fame, Warm Leatherette, Nightclubbing, Living My Life, and Slave to the Rhythm. No tracks from Muse were included. The album was a huge success in the UK
Grace Jones  Slave to the Rhythm  Slave to the Rhythm is the seventh album by Grace Jones. It was produced by Trevor Horn and released in 1985. The album was written by Bruce Woolley, Simon Darlow, Stephen Lipson and Trevor Horn. Unlike most albums that feature a collection of different songs, Slave to the Rhythm was a concept album that featured several, radical interpretations of the title track, interviews with Jones as well as actor Ian McShane reciting passages from Jean-Paul Goude's biography Jungle Fever. In the liner notes to the forthcoming box set celebrating the 25th anniversary of ZTT Records, journalist Paul Morley says Slave to The Rhythm was originally intended for Frankie Goes To Hollywood as a follow-up to their single Relax. The song was assembled and produced by Horn after Two Tribes, but the project was given to Jones. Morley says Horn worked on the song endlessly and had hoped it would become one of his biggest and most successful creations.
Grace Jones  Portfolio (Grace Jones album)  Portfolio is the debut album by Grace Jones. It was released in 1977 and the first of three albums made with the legendary disco record producer Tom Moulton. It also includes three singles previously issued on label Orfeus in France and Beam Junction in the U.S. in 1975 and 1976, I Need A Man, Sorry and That's the Trouble. Side one of the original vinyl album is a continuous disco medley covering three songs from Broadway musicals, Send In The Clowns by Stephen Sondheim from 1973's A Little Night Music, What I Did For Love from A Chorus Line and Tomorrow from Annie. Side two opens with Jones' very personal re-interpretation of Edith Piaf's La Vie en rose which remains one of her best known recordings, it was the only song from her disco trilogy Portfolio/Fame/Muse to be performed in her Grammy nominated A One Man Show in 1981/1982. An edited version of the track was released as a single in both 1977, 1983 and 1985 and the album version was also included on the 1985 career retrospective Island Life
Grace Jones  Fame (album)  Fame is the second studio album by Grace Jones. It was released in 1978. Just like on her debut album, Portfolio, side A is a continuous Tom Moulton-disco medley, with a total running time of 18:47. As Portfolio opened with La Vie en rose, side B on Fame also opens with a French language cover, Jacques Prévert's Autumn Leaves
Grace Jones  Muse (Grace Jones album)  Muse is the third album by Grace Jones, and was released in 1979. It was the last album of her disco trilogy with Tom Moulton, which began in 1977 with debut Portfolio. The first side of the album is a continuous medley of four songs, joined by a narrative about someone who has sinned. The second side, however, consists of disco songs with no relation to one another. All album art, including the cover image, is by Richard Bernstein. The track I'll Find My Way To You was originally featured in 1976 Italian movie Quelli della calibro 38 (international title Colt 38 Special Squad) in which Jones plays a club singer, the original version along with a song called I Still Get The Blues were included on the soundtrack album produced by composer Stelvio Cipriani. Jones re-recorded I'll Find My Way To You three years later with Tom Moulton for album Muse. Icelandic keyboardist Thor Baldursson who arranged most of the album and also sings duet with Grace on the track Suffer had previously worked in Munich Germany with disco stars such as Silver Convention, Boney M. , Donna Summer, Amanda Lear and Giorgio Moroder. Muse was released in the year of the anti-disco backlash and both the album and its double A-side single On Your Knees/Don't Mess With The Messer were largely overlooked by the record buying public at the time and is generally believed to be Grace Jones' lost album. Muse remains the only Grace Jones studio album not to have been re-released on CD by Island Records/Universal Music.
Grace Jones  Bulletproof Heart  Bulletproof Heart is the ninth studio album by Grace Jones and was released in 1989. Singles from the album were Love on Top of Love
Grace Jones  Warm Leatherette (album)  Warm Leatherette is the fourth studio album by Grace Jones. Released in 1980, Warm Leatherette was the first of three albums produced by Chris Blackwell at Compass Point Studios in the Bahamas. The album included covers of songs by the Normal, the Pretenders, Roxy Music, Smokey Robinson, Tom Petty &amp; The Heartbreakers and Jacques Higelin. After the commercial success of Nightclubbing Island Records re-released the Warm Leatherette album with new artwork, replacing Jean-Paul Goude's original black-and-white studio portrait with pictures of Jones in performance taken from her 1981/82 tour A One Man Show. The original LP release was also launched in a Scandinavian Special edition with a different mix, only in the Nordics. Most current Compact Disc editions include the longer or extended 12 mixes of selected tracks that originally appeared on the so-called 1+1 chrome audio cassette; side one consisting of the regular album and side two of five alternate versions.
Grace Jones  Inside Story  Inside Story is Grace Jones's eighth studio album, and her first with the Manhattan Records label. It was also her first time working with producer Nile Rodgers. The album spawned the singles I'm Not Perfect (But I'm Perfect for You), Victor Should Have Been a Jazz Musician, Crush, and Party Girl. The artwork for the album cover was designed by Richard Bernstein, who had previously worked with Jones on the albums Muse, Fame, and Portfolio. This album is notable for being Jones' first foray into production, a role she would again assume on 1989's Bulletproof Heart, which resulted in frequent, heated clashes with Rodgers. A remastered edition of the album was released in 2004 on EMI Records.
Grace Jones  The Grace Jones Story  The Grace Jones Story is the 2006 anthology of Grace Jones' career spanning from 1977 to 1993. The Grace Jones Story is Island Records/Universal Music's first attempt to create a comprehensive documentation of Jones' recording career; starting in 1977 with her debut album Portfolio, and ending with the one-off Island Records single Sex Drive in 1993. The compilation however omits her biggest commercial hit, 1985's Slave To The Rhythm, as well as other standout tracks like Demolition Man, Victor Should Have Been A Jazz Musician and Amado Mio.
Grace Jones  Living My Life (album)  Living My Life is the sixth album by Grace Jones, released in 1982. It was the last of three albums she recorded at Compass Point Studios in the Bahamas. This time around, Jones wrote or co-wrote every track on the album except for one, The Apple Stretching, which was originally written by Melvin Van Peebles and used in the Broadway
Grace Jones  Island Life 2  Island Life 2 is a re-issue of the 1985 compilation of Grace Jones songs, Island Life. Released in 1996 by Island Records/Universal Music France with four additional tracks.
Grace Jones  The Ultimate Collection (Grace Jones album)  The Ultimate Collection is a 3 CD compilation by Grace Jones, released by Universal Music Netherlands in 2006. Remastered in a 32-bit sound. The Ultimate Collection features newly remastered songs from her disco period (1976-1979), most noticeably the album version of her 1978 hit Do or Die, which is available on compact disc for the first time in more than a decade. The Ultimate Collection is not intended to be a singles collection, as several single releases are missing (most notably On Your Knees, the primary single from the album Muse). The Ultimate Collection is more or less an expanded re-issue of Universal Music's The Grace Jones Story released the same year, with a few notable changes: Disc one omits That's The Trouble but adds the aforementioned album version of Do or Die, All On A Summer's Night as well as the original long versions of Private Life, Love Is The Drug and Warm Leatherette. Unfortunately Universal Music haven't corrected the faulty edit of Muse track Saved that also appeared on The Grace Jones Story, which means that the two first minutes of the song are again left out. Disc two uses the album version of Pull Up To The Bumper instead of the 7 edit as well as the original long version of The Hunter Gets Captured By The Game. It adds Inspiration, Slave To The Rhythm (sadly not the well-known single version but the album track that confusingly bears the same title) and Victor Should Have Been A Jazz Musician, but omits Someone To Love and moves She's Lost Control and Sex Drive to disc three, which otherwise consists of alternate versions previously issued on 1998's Private Life: The Compass Point Sessions. The Ultimate Collection, packaged in a double gatefold cardboard sleeve - although usually listed as a box set, was released by the Dutch label CCM, a subsidiary of Universal Music Holland. CCM has previously issued similar 3 CD Ultimate Collections by artists like Donna Summer, Barry White, Diana Ross, Kool &amp; The Gang, Dusty Springfield and others.
Grace Jones  Private Life: The Compass Point Sessions  Private Life: The Compass Point Sessions is a two disc anthology of recordings by Grace Jones released by Island Records in 1998. Grace Jones recorded three albums with Sly &amp; Robbie in the legendary Compass Point Studios, Bahamas during the period of 1980-1982; Warm Leatherette, Nightclubbing and Living My Life. Private Life: The Compass Point Sessions contains long and extended version of her hits, although the CD booklet claims that these haven't been issued before, most of them have in fact appeared on numerous CD re-issues around the world. Other tracks were remixed or re-edited by the PolyGram/Universal engineers in 1998 for this particular compilation - this instead of using the many existing long or extended versions by original producers Chris Blackwell and Alex Sadkin that were mixed and released on vinyl in 1980-1982. The track Living My Life appears as an edited remix by Paul Groucho Smykle - dating from 1986, which the liner notes fail to mention. Another anomaly on The Compass Point Sessions is that it concludes with Slave To The Rhythm, a track which was recorded in 1985, in London and with British producer Trevor Horn. Also the mix used, here renamed Hot Blooded Version, is again an alternate 1998 re-mix/re-edit of the original 12 version entitled Blooded.  This compilation, however, collects what is generally regarded to be Jones' best work and it also offers a well-researched essay and two previously unreleased songs from the Living My Life sessions: Man Around The House and a demo recording of Johnny Cash's classic Ring of Fire.
Grace Jones  20th Century Masters – The Millennium Collection: The Best of Grace Jones  Grace Jones' entry in the budget line series 20th Century Masters - The Millennium Collection.
Grace Jones  The Universal Masters Collection (Grace Jones album)  The Universal Masters Collection is a mid-price compilation of recordings by Grace Jones, first released by Universal Music in 2003. With the exception of La Vie En Rose from 1977's Portfolio, the thirteen track package focuses on material from Jones' studio albums Warm Leatherette (1980), Nightclubbing (1981) and Living My Life (1982). The Universal Masters Collection has been re-released with alternate cover art under the titles Best 1200 (Japan 2005), Colour Collection (2006), Star-Club Präsentiert Grace Jones (Germany 2008), The Masters Collection (2009) and Classic Grace Jones (2009).
Grace Jones  The Collection (Grace Jones album)  The Collection is a compilation of recordings by Grace Jones released by Universal Music's sublabel Spectrum in 2004.
Grace Jones  Colour Collection (Grace Jones)  Colour Collection is a mid-price compilation of recordings by Grace Jones released by Universal Music in 2006. With the exception of La Vie En Rose from 1977's Portfolio, the thirteen track package focuses on material from Jones' studio albums Warm Leatherette (1980), Nightclubbing (1981) and Living My Life (1982). Colour Collection was originally released as The Universal Masters Collection in 2003, and has also been re-issued with alternate cover art under the titles Best 1200 (Japan 2005), Star-Club Präsentiert Grace Jones (Germany 2008), The Masters Collection (2009) and Classic Grace Jones (2009).
Grace Jones  The Ultimate (Grace Jones album)  The Ultimate is a compilation of recordings by Grace Jones released by Island Records in the Netherlands in 1993.
Grace Jones  Hurricane (Grace Jones album)  Hurricane is the tenth studio album by singer Grace Jones and her first album of new material in nineteen years.
Graham Bonnet  Line-Up (album)  Line-Up is the third album released by English singer, Graham Bonnet, formerly of Rainbow.
Graham Bonnet  The Day I Went Mad  The Day I Went Mad is the sixth solo album by English rock singer Graham Bonnet, originally released in 1999. Much like his previous solo efforts, Bonnet enlisted a host of guest musicians for the recording, including former Guns N' Roses guitarist Slash, Def Leppard guitarist Vivian Campbell and Vanilla Fudge bassist Tim Bogert. The album cover was illustrated by guitarist Mario Parga, who plays on several tracks.
Graham Bonnet  Underground (Graham Bonnet album)  Underground is the fifth solo album by English rock singer Graham Bonnet, originally released in 1997. Underground reunites Bonnet with guitarist Danny Johnson, who previously performed with Bonnet in Alcatrazz. Lost in Hollywood is a re-recording of a song Bonnet recorded during his tenure with Rainbow.
Gwen Stefani  Love. Angel. Music. Baby.  Love. Angel. Music. Baby. is the debut studio album by American recording artist Gwen Stefani, released in the United States on November 23, 2004 by Interscope Records. The album originally began as a small side project for Stefani, eventually growing into her first solo album following her break from the band No Doubt, as well as a large production with numerous musical collaborations and producers. Love. Angel. Music. Baby. was designed as an updated version of a 1980s music record, and was influenced by artists such as early Madonna, New Order, Cyndi Lauper, Depeche Mode, The Cure, Lisa Lisa and Cult Jam, Debbie Deb, and Club Nouveau. Most of the songs on the album are thematically focused on fashion and wealth. The album introduced the Harajuku Girls, four backup dancers who dress in Stefani's interpretation of the youth fashion trends of Harajuku, a district in Tokyo, Japan. Love. Angel. Music. Baby. debuted to generally favorable reviews from contemporary music critics. The album yielded six singles and had high sales, going multi-platinum in several countries, and selling seven million copies. It earned Stefani six Grammy Award nominations in 2005 and 2006.
Gwen Stefani  The Sweet Escape  The Sweet Escape is the second studio album by American recording artist Gwen Stefani, released in the United States on December 5, 2006 by Interscope Records. Having originally intended to return to No Doubt after her 2004 solo album Love. Angel. Music. Baby. , Stefani decided to record a second album as a way to release some of the material left over from the L.A.M.B. writing sessions. The album musically resembles its predecessor while exploring more modern pop sounds. It was released to generally mixed reviews from contemporary music critics, receiving criticism for its strong similarities to L.A.M.B. It was preceded by the lead single Wind It Up, which charted moderately across the world, and produced the follow-up single The Sweet Escape, which proved more successful worldwide. The Sweet Escape reached the top five in the U.S. , Canada, and Australia and peaked inside the top twenty in the United Kingdom. The Sweet Escape Tour, started in April 2007, covered North America, Central America, Australia, Asia, and Europe.
Gwen Stefani  Harajuku Lovers Live  Harajuku Lovers Live is a video album by American singer Gwen Stefani, released on DVD on December 5, 2006, under the Interscope record label. The DVD was directed by Sophie Muller and produced by Oil Factory Productions. It is a recording of one of Stefani's concerts during her Harajuku Lovers Tour 2005 in late 2005 to promote her first album, Love. Angel. Music. Baby. , released in November 2004. The performance was recorded in November 2005, in Anaheim, California. The concert features performances of all twelve songs from Love. Angel. Music. Baby. and two new songs from The Sweet Escape, as well as interviews with the musicians and dancers and a documentary of tour preparation. Harajuku Lovers Live was released in conjunction with the promotion for Stefani's second album, The Sweet Escape, which was also released on December 5, 2006. The DVD received mixed reviews, with reviewers praising Stefani's musical performances and stage presence, but criticising the lack of material and the long costume changes. The DVD was certified gold in Australia by the Australian Recording Industry Association and platinum in Canada by the Canadian Recording Industry Association.
Hélène Ségara  Cœur de verre  For the Werner Herzog film, see Heart of Glass (film), for the referring 1977 Popol Vuh album, see Herz aus Glas (album). Cœur de verreAlbum by Hélène SégaraReleased 1996Recorded FranceGenre PopLabel East WestProducer Warner Music FranceHélène Ségara chronology Cœur de verre(1996) Au Nom d'une Femme(2000) Singles from Cœur de verre Je vous aime adieuReleased: April, 1996 Une Voix dans la nuitReleased: 1996 Les LarmesReleased: 1997 Auprès de ceux que j'aimaisReleased: 1997 Vivo per lei (je vis pour elle)Released: December, 1997 Loin du froid de décembreReleased: March, 1998 VivreReleased: 1998 Les Vallées d'IrlandeReleased: November, 1998 Cœur de verre is the name of the first studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in 1996, after its first hit single, Je vous aime adieu, and achieved success in France and Belgium (Wallonia). It provided eight singles, including three hits.
Helene Segara  Cœur de verre  For the Werner Herzog film, see Heart of Glass (film), for the referring 1977 Popol Vuh album, see Herz aus Glas (album). Cœur de verreAlbum by Hélène SégaraReleased 1996Recorded FranceGenre PopLabel East WestProducer Warner Music FranceHélène Ségara chronology Cœur de verre(1996) Au Nom d'une Femme(2000) Singles from Cœur de verre Je vous aime adieuReleased: April, 1996 Une Voix dans la nuitReleased: 1996 Les LarmesReleased: 1997 Auprès de ceux que j'aimaisReleased: 1997 Vivo per lei (je vis pour elle)Released: December, 1997 Loin du froid de décembreReleased: March, 1998 VivreReleased: 1998 Les Vallées d'IrlandeReleased: November, 1998 Cœur de verre is the name of the first studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in 1996, after its first hit single, Je vous aime adieu, and achieved success in France and Belgium (Wallonia). It provided eight singles, including three hits.
Hélène Ségara  Au nom d'une femme  Au Nom d'une Femme is the name of the second studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in January 2000, and achieved a great success in France, Belgium (Wallonia) and Switzerland, remaining to date Ségara's most successful album in terms of sales.
Helene Segara  Au nom d'une femme  Au Nom d'une Femme is the name of the second studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in January 2000, and achieved a great success in France, Belgium (Wallonia) and Switzerland, remaining to date Ségara's most successful album in terms of sales.
Hélène Ségara  Humaine  Humaine is the name of the third studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in March 2003, and had a smash success in France, Belgium (Wallonia) and Switzerland, reaching the top five in these countries.
Helene Segara  Humaine  Humaine is the name of the third studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It was released in March 2003, and had a smash success in France, Belgium (Wallonia) and Switzerland, reaching the top five in these countries.
Hélène Ségara  Quand l'éternité...  Quand l'éternité... is the name of the fourth studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara, and her seventh overall. It was released in September 2006, and even if it started at the top of the charts, it was one of Ségara's less-selling albums.
Helene Segara  Quand l'éternité...  Quand l'éternité... is the name of the fourth studio album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara, and her seventh overall. It was released in September 2006, and even if it started at the top of the charts, it was one of Ségara's less-selling albums.
Hélène Ségara  En concert à l'Olympia  En concert à l'Olympia is the name of the first live album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara, and her third overall. It was released in October 2001, and was available first as a box set containing two CDs, then as a DVD. It achieved success in the countries where it was released. The two CDs were recorded during the singer's first tour which led her at the Olympia of Paris from October 23 to 26, 2000. This live album contains songs from Ségara's first two albums, Cœur de verre and Au Nom d'une Femme, two songs from the musical Notre Dame de Paris in which Ségara portrayed Esméralda, and five tracks as bonus which are cover versions of Ségara's hits in Spanish-language, whose texts were written by the Spanish singer and songwriter Nilda Fernandez.
Helene Segara  En concert à l'Olympia  En concert à l'Olympia is the name of the first live album recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara, and her third overall. It was released in October 2001, and was available first as a box set containing two CDs, then as a DVD. It achieved success in the countries where it was released. The two CDs were recorded during the singer's first tour which led her at the Olympia of Paris from October 23 to 26, 2000. This live album contains songs from Ségara's first two albums, Cœur de verre and Au Nom d'une Femme, two songs from the musical Notre Dame de Paris in which Ségara portrayed Esméralda, and five tracks as bonus which are cover versions of Ségara's hits in Spanish-language, whose texts were written by the Spanish singer and songwriter Nilda Fernandez.
Hélène Ségara  Le Best Of  Le Best of (also entitled Ailleurs comme ici) is the name of the first compilation recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It contains all Ségara's songs previouly released as singles from her previous three albums (except Au Nom d'une Femme and the promotional singles), including the duets with Andrea Bocelli and Laura Pausini, plus three new songs, Ailleurs comme ici, which was the only single from this album, Je t'aimerai and Ne me laisse jamais partir. Released on November 26, 2004, Ailleurs comme ici was a moderate success in the three countries in which it was charted, in comparison with Ségara's previous albums.
Helene Segara  Le Best Of  Le Best of (also entitled Ailleurs comme ici) is the name of the first compilation recorded by the French singer Hélène Ségara. It contains all Ségara's songs previouly released as singles from her previous three albums (except Au Nom d'une Femme and the promotional singles), including the duets with Andrea Bocelli and Laura Pausini, plus three new songs, Ailleurs comme ici, which was the only single from this album, Je t'aimerai and Ne me laisse jamais partir. Released on November 26, 2004, Ailleurs comme ici was a moderate success in the three countries in which it was charted, in comparison with Ségara's previous albums.
Howard Jones  The 12 Album  The 12 Album was an album of twelve inch mixes by singer and musician Howard Jones, released in December 1984. It was released between the first two studio albums Human's Lib and Dream Into Action and at the time was the only album to feature the single Like to Get to Know You Well, which had been a hit four months earlier. The album reached number 15 in the UK Album Charts.
Howard Jones  Dream into Action  Dream into Action is the second album by British pop musician Howard Jones. It was released in March 1985 and reached No.2 in the UK Album Charts. The album contained the hit singles Things Can Only Get Better
Howard Jones  Cross That Line  Cross That Line is the fourth album by British pop musician Howard Jones
Howard Jones  In the Running  In the Running is the fifth album by British pop musician Howard Jones, released in 1992. It was his last original studio album recorded on the Warner/Elektra label.
Howard Jones  The Best of Howard Jones  The Best of Howard Jones is a compilation album by the British pop musician Howard Jones. It compiles key hits and album tracks from 1983-1992 during Jones's tenure on the Warner music label, plus one new track, a cover of Donald Fagen's I.G.Y. (What A Beautiful World).
Howard Jones  Working in the Back Room  Working In The Backroom is Howard Jones's sixth album, released in 1994, independently on his own record label.
Howard Jones  Live Acoustic America  Live Acoustic America is an acoustic live recording of classic Howard Jones songs, released in 1996.
Howard Jones  Working in the Backroom  Working In The Backroom is the sixth album by British pop musician Howard Jones. It was released in 1994, and was the first album to be released on Dtox records, Jones's own label.
Howard Jones  Angels & Lovers  Angels &amp; Lovers is an album by the British pop musician Howard Jones. It was released in 1997 in Japan only. The album was re-released worldwide the following year as People, with some minor changes to the track listing. The two songs that were on this album but not on People, Angels And Lovers and When Lovers Confess, appeared on later CD singles.
Howard Jones  People the Album  People The Album is officially Howard Jones's seventh album, released in 1998.
Howard Jones  Perform.00  Perform.00 is a collection of Howard Jones favorites re-recorded by Jones and the backup band that accompanied him on tour to support his 1998 album People, and on the VH-1 Big Rewind tour of the late 90s (where he appeared on the same bill as the The Human League and Culture Club). The bassist for the tours and on this album was Nick Beggs, known better as the bassist for Kajagoogoo. Drummer Kevin Wilkinson and guitarist Robin Boult also contributed to both projects. Many of the artist's older songs are given an updated, stadium rock sound; Jones plays mostly piano and organ, with only an occasional hint of his trademark synthesizers. There are three new tracks: Love Is A Good Thing, I Must Go and Someone You Need (a collaboration with Duncan Sheik).
Howard Jones  The Peaceful Tour Live  The Peaceful Tour Live is a collection of Howard Jones songs performed live and with full electronics, released in 2001.
Howard Jones  The Very Best of Howard Jones  The Very Best of Howard Jones is a collection of Howard Jones's biggest hits from 1983 through 2003. It also contains one new track, Revolution Of The Heart, in its original form. It would later be altered and featured on his 2005 album, Revolution Of The Heart. The Very Best Of Howard Jones also came with a bonus disc of b-sides. The two-disc set featuring 36 synth-pop hits includes New Song, Everlasting Love, and the Phil Collins-produced version of No One Is To Blame.
Howard Jones  Revolution of the Heart  Revolution Of The Heart is Howard Jones's eighth album, released in 2005.
Howard Jones  Action Replay (Howard Jones album)  Action Replay is a special six-song EP by British pop musician Howard Jones. It was released only in the United States to support the single version of Jones' hit No One Is To Blame. Other songs on this release include tracks previously only available in the UK, and a handful of extended remixes. Action Replay was released only on vinyl and cassette, and has not been released on CD. Many of its tracks, however, can be found on other CD releases.
Howard Jones  One to One (Howard Jones album)  One to One is the third album by British pop musician Howard Jones, released in October 1986. The CD release also contains the single version of No One Is to Blame (a song featured on his previous album) with Phil Collins on backing vocals and drums.
Howard Jones  People (Howard Jones album)  People is officially Howard Jones's seventh album, released in 1998. After the US release on Ark 21 Records, People was a global release via Jones' own record label dtox. The album is a reworked version of the 1997 Japanese-only release Angels &amp; Lovers. The title track and When Lovers Confess were deleted and three new tracks added: Tomorrow Is Now, Everything, and Let the People Have Their Say. The album did not chart in the UK. The tri fold slip case version features the faces of 210 people, all friends, family and fans of Jones. To promote the album, a tour was organised. Jones' band consisted of former Kajagoogoo bassist Nick Beggs, guitarist Robin Boult and on drums the late Kevin Wilkinson.
Howard Jones  Piano Solos (for Friends and Loved Ones)  Piano Solos (for Friends and Loved Ones) is an album by Howard Jones released in 2002.
Howard Jones  The Twelve Inch Album  The Twelve Inch Album is an album by Howard Jones.
Howard Jones  Revolution Remixed & Surrounded  Revolution Remixed &amp; Surrounded is a double album featuring dance reinterpretations of selected tracks from Howard Jones' 2005 release Revolution of the Heart. Disc one is a continuous segue or 'mix' of music. Disc two is a DVD featuring more remixes, this time presented in DTS surround sound and accompanied by computer-generated visuals created by Stephen W Tayler.
Howard Jones  Ordinary Heroes (album)  Ordinary Heroes is the ninth studio album by the British Pop musician Howard Jones, released on 9th November 2009.
JC Chasez  Schizophrenic (album)  Schizophrenic is the first solo studio album by JC Chasez, known as one of the lead singers of the pop group 'N Sync. It was released on February 24, 2004.
Janet Jackson  Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814  Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814 is the fourth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on September 19, 1989, by A&amp;M Records. Despite demands from A&amp;M executives for material similar to her previous album, Control (1986), she insisted on creating a concept album addressing social injustice. Collaborating with her producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, she drew inspiration from news media, exploring subject matter such as racism, poverty and substance abuse. Although critics viewed the album's theme as transparent, too generalized to adequately address any significant issues, she was hailed as a role model for youth because of her socially conscious lyrics. Produced during the height of the new jack swing genre, the album blends rhythm and blues with industrial music and the utilization of swing note, synthesized percussion and sample loop. Songs on the album range from mechanized dance rhythms to soft balladry. Due to its innovative production and lyrical exploration, critics have regarded the album as the pinnacle of her artistic achievement. The supporting Rhythm Nation World Tour became the world's most successful debut concert tour by a recording artist. It became her second consecutive album to hit number one on the Billboard 200 and was certified sixfold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), selling fourteen million copies worldwide. Its seven commercial singles all peaked within the top five on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming the first and only album to achieve that feat. It has been named by Rolling Stone magazine as one of The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time and is listed in 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.
Janet Jackson  Control (Janet Jackson album)  Control is the third studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on February 6, 1986 by A&amp;M Records. Her collaborations with songwriters and record producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis resulted in an unconventional sound: a fusion of rhythm and blues, funk, disco, rap vocals, and synthesized percussion that established Jackson, Jam and Lewis as the leading innovators of contemporary R&amp;B. It enabled Jackson to transition into the popular music market, becoming one of the defining albums of the 1980s and contemporary music. Containing autobiographical themes, a majority of the album's lyrics came as the result of a series of changes in her life: a recent annulment from R&amp;B singer James DeBarge, severing her business affairs from her father and manager Joseph and the rest of the Jackson family, hiring A&amp;M executive John McClain as her new management, and her subsequent introduction to Jam and Lewis. The album has been praised by critics as both an artistic feat and as a personal testament of self-actualization. Control is widely regarded as the breakthrough album of Jackson's career. It became her first album to top the Billboard 200 and five of its commercial singles—What Have You Done for Me Lately, Nasty, Control, When I Think of You, and Let's Wait Awhile—peaked within the top five of the Billboard Hot 100. It went on to receive several accolades, including the Grammy Award for Producer of the Year, Non-Classical for Jam and Lewis in 1987. Control is listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as one of the 200 Definitive Albums of All Time. It has been certified fivefold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and has sold over fourteen million copies worldwide.
Janet Jackson  The Velvet Rope  The Velvet Rope is the sixth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released October 7, 1997 by Virgin Records. It is co-written and produced by her long-term collaborators Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, as well as her then-husband René Elizondo, Jr. Prior to its release, Jackson renewed her recording contract with Virgin for an unprecedented $80 million dollars, establishing her as the industry's highest paid act at the time. Following the conclusion of the Janet World Tour, Jackson struggled with a long-term case of depression. As a result, she frequently took time off or abruptly left the studio during recording sessions. Containing autobiographical themes, The Velvet Rope—a title which refers to boundaries within society and individuals, symbolic of literal velvet ropes at events where only Very Important Persons (VIPs) are allowed entry—became a concept album. Although she introduced sexuality into her music with her previous album janet. (1993), The Velvet Rope takes the concept a step further, encompassing sadomasochism and same-sex relationships as lyrical content. Referred to as a masterpiece, it has been the subject of critical acclaim. The Velvet Rope debuted at number one on the Billboard 200, becoming Jackson's fourth consecutive album to top the chart, selling over ten million copies worldwide. The Recording Industry Association of America has certified The Velvet Rope triple platinum. The Velvet Rope is also ranked at number 256 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
Janet Jackson  Janet (album)  Janet (styled as janet. and pronounced as Janet, period. ) is the fifth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on May 18, 1993 by Virgin Records. Jackson shares co-writing and production credits with long-term collaborators Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, as well as Jellybean Johnson. The album was the first to be released under Jackson's new label, as she had departed from A&amp;M Records for a then-unprecedented multi-million dollar contract with Virgin in 1991. The album's title, Janet, period. , is meant to disassociate the singer's public image from that of her family, essentially dropping the Jackson surname. While the artist had once garnered a reputation as an advocate for sexual abstinence with her 1986 single Let's Wait Awhile, the theme of Janet is sexual intimacy. Though the album was considered to be less innovative than her previous efforts—Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814 (1989) and Control (1986)—critical reception was predominately positive. The album's music contains a softer, sensual tone compared to that of her previous albums, and because she took a greater role as producer, Janet has been credited as a truer testament of independence than Control. It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 with the largest first week sales in history for a female artist at the time, becoming her third consecutive album to top the chart and produced six top ten hits on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. That's the Way Love Goes won the 1994 Grammy Award for Best R&amp;B Song and Again—featured on the soundtrack of Jackson's debut feature film Poetic Justice—garnered nominations for the Golden Globe and Academy Award for Best Original Song. The supporting Janet World Tour received critical acclaim for Jackson's elaborate stage performances. It was Certified sixfold platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and has sold over 20 million units worldwide. It is listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as one of the 200 Definitive Albums of All Time.
Janet Jackson  Janet Jackson (album)  Janet Jackson is the self-titled debut album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on September 21, 1982 by A&amp;M Records. Jackson's career as a recording artist was established by her father and manager Joseph Jackson, who arranged her recording contract with A&amp;M Records. Jackson, at the time, was not committed to a career in music and did not contribute much effort to the project. The album's musical content contains bubblegum pop mixed with elements of disco and funk. Songwriters Angela Winbush and René Moore contributed to much of the album's lyrics. Moore and Winbush share production credits with and Foster Sylvers, Jerry Weaver, and Bobby Watson. Janet Jackson debuted at number six on the Billboard Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums and its single Young Love peaked at number six on the Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Songs chart.
Janet Jackson  Design of a Decade 1986/1996  Design of a Decade: 1986/1996 is the first greatest hits album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on October 10, 1995 by A&amp;M. It features 14 of Jackson's top 40 hits from her three previous albums; Control (1986), Janet Jackson's Rhythm Nation 1814 (1989), janet. (1993), and two new tracks; Runaway and Twenty Foreplay. It was well received by many critics citing the amount of hit singles on the record, but was many noted its misleading title, since a majority of the songs came from the period of 1986-1991. It was certified Double Platinum by the RIAA and has since sold 10 million copies worldwide.
Janet Jackson  All for You (Janet Jackson album)  All for You is the seventh studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released in the United States on April 24, 2001 by Virgin Records. Unlike The Velvet Rope, which saw Jackson tackling darker issues like domestic violence and depression, All for You showcased a fluffier pop sound with lyrics talking mostly about her then-recent divorce. First pressings of the album did not contain a Parental Advisory warning on it, and a clean version was not offered, despite strong language and sexual content. Subsequent pressings of the album did in fact have a Parental Advisory warning on it, and a clean version was then issued, which omitted the track Would You Mind. This situation drew many comparisons to Jennifer Lopez's album, J. Lo (2001), as the same thing happened with that album. The album marked Jackson's first album to be released with a Parental Advisory label on it; the second being follow-up Damita Jo (2004). Billboard magazine ranked All For You at number 141 on the magazine's Top 200 Albums of the Decade.
Janet Jackson  Damita Jo (album)  Damita Jo is the eighth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released in the United States on March 30, 2004 by Virgin Records. The album takes its title from Jackson's middle name. This is Jackson's second album to bear the Parental Advisory sticker; the first being All for You. This album has been released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions.
Janet Jackson  Dream Street (Janet Jackson album)  Dream Street is the second studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on October 23, 1984. More pop than her debut album's bubblegum soul feel, the album wasn't the runaway success that Janet's father Joseph thought it would be, peaking at number one hundred forty-seven on the Billboard 200 in 1984. Today, this is Jackson's rarest album and is much sought after by fans, though it is still available as an expensive Japanese import. The album did have one modest hit for Jackson, the top ten R&amp;B single, Don't Stand Another Chance, produced by brother Marlon. Also, the video for the song Dream Street, her first music video, was shot during the shooting of the TV show Fame. This would be the last of Jackson's pre-stardom albums. She would break out of her squeaky-clean sounds with her Control album in 1986. It was made available to iTunes on May 15, 2007.
Janet Jackson  Janet Remixed  Janet Remixed (styled as janet. Remixed) is the second remix album (seventh overall) by American R&amp;B-pop singer Janet Jackson. Released on March 13, 1995, it featured two non-album B-sides, including the radio hit And on and On and 70's Love Groove, as well as a number of exclusive remixes of tracks from the Janet album. The rare B-side to the single If, One More Chance, was not included on the CD version of janet. Remixed but on vinyl and cassette versions. However, like 1987's Control: The Remixes, it was never given a commercial release in Jackson's native United States.
Janet Jackson  Control: The Remixes  Control: The Remixes (issued as More Control in Japan) is the first remix album (and fourth album overall) by American recording artist Janet Jackson. Released in 1987 in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, and Japan only, it contains remixes of singles from Control, following the success of the album. Several of the remixes, notably When I Think of You and Control, were the versions featured in their respective music videos. Most of the remixes were also available as B-sides to the original versions.
Janet Jackson  From Janet to Damita Jo: The Videos  From Janet to Damita Jo: The Videos is a DVD released by American R&amp;B-pop singer–songwriter Janet Jackson.
Janet Jackson  20 Y.O.  20 Y.O. is the ninth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released by Virgin Records on September 20, 2006 in Japan, September 22 internationally, and September 26 in Canada and the United States. The album debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with 297,000 copies sold in its first week, making it Jackson's eighth consecutive top three debut and second consecutive number two album debut. It is also Jackson's eighth consecutive platinum album. On December 7, 2006 the album earned Jackson a Grammy Award nomination for Best Contemporary R&amp;B Album. The reception was better than Damita Jo but was still lukewarm. Jackson launched a contest, the Design Me cover contest, giving fans an opportunity to create the artwork for the album by downloading images of her and creating proposed covers for the album. Jackson hand-picked dozens of images to be used in the contest. She selected her top four favorites, which were used for the standard edition's cover on U.S. pressings of 20 Y.O.
Janet Jackson  Dream Street (song)  's second album Dream Street had three single releases, Two to the Power of Love, Fast Girls, and Don't Stand Another Chance. The title track was also scheduled to be released in 1984, but due to low sales the producers canceled these plans. Thanks to the TV show Fame, Dream Street did get a music video.
Janet Jackson  Live in Hawaii (Janet Jackson DVD)  Janet Jackson - Live In Hawaii is a video released by American R&amp;B/pop singer Janet Jackson.
Janet Jackson  The Velvet Rope Tour – Live in Concert  The Velvet Rope - Live In Concert is a video released by American R&amp;B/pop singer Janet Jackson.
Janet Jackson  Design of a Decade 1986/1996 (video)  Design of a Decade 1986-1996 is a video compilation released by American R&amp;B/pop singer Janet Jackson.
Janet Jackson  Janet (video)  Janet (styled as janet. ) is a video compilation released by American R&amp;B/pop singer Janet Jackson.
Janet Jackson  Discipline (Janet Jackson album)  Discipline is the tenth studio album by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released by Island Records on February 26, 2008. It was her only album released for Island Records, after her five-album deal with Virgin Records was fulfilled with the release of 20 Y.O.. Jackson worked with producers such as Darkchild, Jermaine Dupri, Ne-Yo, Shea Taylor, Stargate, Johnta Austin, Tricky Stewart, and The-Dream on the album. Jackson's long-time producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis, did not contribute to the project. The album was executively produced by Island Urban president Jermaine Dupri and Jackson. Four singles were released from the album; the first, Feedback, was released as a digital download in December 2007. The song reached number nineteen on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, becoming Jackson's best-charting single since 2001's Someone to Call My Lover. The album's later singles did not share the success of Feedback.  The deluxe version of Discipline contained a DVD documenting the production and promotion of the album and music videos. The album received generally positive reviews, with critics arguing that it was an improvement on Jackson's two previous albums. Despite positive reviews it became one of her least successful albums. It debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200, becoming her sixth to top the chart and it was her first album to reach number one album in the United States after 2001's All for You. However, sales of the album quickly fell, and by June the album's promotion had officially ended. Jackson started her Rock Witchu Tour—with the support of Live Nation—in early September to positive reviews but by the end of that month Jackson parted company with her record label.
Janet Jackson  Number Ones (Janet Jackson album)  Number Ones (released internationally as The Best) is the second greatest hits compilation by American recording artist Janet Jackson, released on November 17, 2009 by Universal Music Enterprises (UMe). The double-disc album is composed of 33 of her number one hit singles spanning various music charts across North America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Japan and South Africa. Number Ones collects singles from her third studio album Control (1986) to her tenth studio album Discipline (2008), and was made possible as a joint venture between UMe and EMI Music. The album's single, Make Me, was made available for digital download on September 22, 2009. On December 22nd, Make Me became her nineteenth number one hit single on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Songs chart.
Jennifer Lopez  Rebirth (Jennifer Lopez album)  Rebirth is the fourth studio album (fifth overall) by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in the United States on March 1, 2005 by Epic Records. It spawned the single Get Right, a hit in several territories.
Jennifer Lopez  This Is Me... Then  This Is Me... Then is the third full-length English studio album (fourth overall) by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released on November 19, 2002 by Epic Records. The album debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200 selling 314,000 copies during its first week, remaining in the top twenty for twelve weeks and on the chart for thirty-seven weeks. It has sold 2.5 million copies in the United States and over six million copies worldwide. The album spawned four singles: the old school hip hop-influenced Jenny from the Block, the Billboard Hot 100 chart-topper All I Have, and the soul-tinged tracks I'm Glad and Baby I Love U!. Lopez's cover version of Carly Simon's 1978 song You Belong to Me was released in Brazil, where it appeared on the soundtrack to the telenovela Mulheres Apaixonadas, whereas The One was released to radio stations in Europe—charting at number forty-one on the Romanian Top 100 in mid-May 2003—and Brazil. The track Dear Ben was in reference to her then-fiance, actor Ben Affleck.
Jennifer Lopez  J.Lo (album)  J. Lo is the second studio album by singer-songwriter Jennifer Lopez, released in January 2001 by Epic Records. The album debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart with 272,000 copies sold in its opening week, staying in the top twenty for six weeks, after the single Love Don't Cost a Thing had reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100. The second single, Play, performed moderately but disappointingly, which led Lopez's team to bring in Ja Rule of The Inc. Records (then known as Murder Inc. Records) to create Murder remixes of I'm Real and Ain't It Funny. These remixes, which are essentially different songs with the same title, both topped the Hot 100. This album is more urban than On The 6 as it leaned towards R&amp;B and less of a pure pop sound. On July 24, 2001 (coinciding with Lopez's thirty-second birthday), the album was re-released with the Murder Remix of I'm Real as a bonus track. The re-release came with a Parental Advisory warning, although the initial release did not come with one. Although there are quite a number of uses strong language and sexual content on the main album itself (I'm Real, Play, Come Over), many speculate that the large number of uses of strong language and racial slurs in the bonus track led the record company to add the Parental Advisory warning to the album. A similar thing happened with Janet Jackson's album All for You (2001). It is Lopez's most commercially successful album to date with over eight and a half million copies sold worldwide. It is the only studio album by Lopez to feature a parental advisory sticker on the cover.
Jennifer Lopez  J to tha L–O!: The Remixes  J to tha L-O!: The Remixes is the first remix album (third overall) by American singer-songwriter Jennifer Lopez, released in the United States on February 5, 2002 by Epic Records. It was the first remix album to debut at the top of the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, and became one of the best-selling remix albums in the U.S. , selling over 156,000 copies during its opening week-appearing in the 2004 Guinness World Records as the most successful remix album- and over 3.5 million copies altogether. The album has also sold over three and a half million copies worldwide, becoming the third best-selling remix album of all time, after Michael Jackson's Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix and Madonna's You Can Dance. It spawned three new singles: Ain't It Funny (Murder Remix), I'm Gonna Be Alright (Track Masters Remix), and Alive. The Metro Remix of Walking on Sunshine received minor airplay in Mexico and other parts of Latin America. Although, the Waiting For Tonight (Hex's Momentous Radio Mix) was not released as a single, it did receive minor airplay on urban radio stations. Lopez also performed the remix at the New Year's Eve 2010 Times Square Event.
Jennifer Lopez  On the 6  On the 6 is the debut album by American singer-songwriter Jennifer Lopez, released in the United States on June 1, 1999 by Epic Records. It debuted at number eight on the U.S. Billboard 200 the week of June 19, 1999 with first-week sales of 112,000 copies, remaining in the top twenty for eleven weeks and on the chart for fifty-three (including one re-entry). It has sold seven million copies worldwide and produced five singles, including the Billboard Hot 100 number one If You Had My Love and the Hot Dance Club Play number one Waiting for Tonight. The album's title refers to the 6 subway line in New York City, which Lopez used to commute to work in Manhattan from her home in the Bronx during the early years of her career. The original title for On the 6 was Feelin' So Good since Lopez wanted the song Feelin' So Good to be the lead single instead of If You Had My Love. The album includes cover versions of two songs by Diana Ross: Promise Me You'll Try and (as a bonus track on select non-U.S. pressings) Theme from Mahogany (Do You Know Where You're Going To). This album is more pop oriented than her later albums. On the 6 is sometimes known as her signature album from becoming a actress to a singer which started her singing career.
Jennifer Lopez  I'm Gonna Be Alright  I'm Gonna Be Alright is pop song by Jennifer Lopez from her second studio album, J. Lo (2001). A remix of the song, entitled I'm Gonna Be Alright (Track Masters Remix), was later recorded for Lopez's remix album, J to tha L-O!: The Remixes (2002). Released in 2002 as the album's second single, the remix is produced by Poke &amp; Tone of Trackmasters and features rapper Nas and is a double A-side along with Alive. It peaked at number ten on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming Lopez's sixth U.S. top ten single. The original Track Masters Remix features 50 Cent. At the time of the single release Lopez chose Nas for the radio version. Nas re-recorded new rap verses and the track was cut down to 2:52, becoming the Track Masters Remix Radio Edit. The remix's beat contains re-adaptions of the instrumental used on Luniz's 1995 song I Got 5 on It featuring Michael Marshall, a song which itself sampled Club Nouveau's 1987 song Why You Treat Me So Bad.
Jennifer Lopez  Como Ama una Mujer  Como Ama una Mujer is the first full-length Spanish-language studio album, and fifth studio album overall released by American singer Jennifer Lopez.
Jennifer Lopez  The Reel Me  The Reel Me is the third DVD by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in November 2003. It features 16 of Lopez' music videos, with additional commentary about their making.
Jennifer Lopez  Let's Get Loud (DVD)  Let's Get Loud is the second DVD by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in February 2003 and recorded at the Roberto Clemente Coliseum in Puerto Rico.
Jennifer Lopez  Feelin' So Good (DVD)  Feelin' So Good is the first DVD by American singer Jennifer Lopez, released in November 2000.
Jennifer Lopez  Brave (Jennifer Lopez album)  Brave is the sixth studio album by American pop singer Jennifer Lopez, released on Epic Records on October 6, 2007 in Australia, October 9, 2007 in North America, and October 15, 2007 in Europe. It debuted at number twelve on the U.S. Billboard 200 with 53,000 copies sold in its first week. It became Lopez's least commercially successful album to date. Brave is the last album Lopez released under Epic Records.
Jennifer Lopez  Como Ama una Mujer (miniseries)  The Jennifer Lopez produced dramatic mini-series Como Ama Una Mujer is Jennifer Lopez's first Spanish-Language TV Project. The five-part dramatic mini-series debuted on the Univision Television Network in 2007. The five episodes were released as a 2-Disc DVD set on December 18, 2007. Jennifer Lopez expressed: “ We are very excited to present this project with Univision and proud to share one of our original series with the Hispanic community. ”
Jennifer Lopez  El Cantante (soundtrack)  El Cantante is the soundtrack to the motion picture of the same name by American pop musicians Marc Anthony and Jennifer Lopez and was released on July 24, 2007 by Sony BMG Norte. The entire album, with the exception of the last track Toma de Mí, is a cover album of songs originally written and recorded by the famous Puerto Rican salsa icon Héctor Lavoe.
Jennifer Lopez  Love? (album)  Love? is the upcoming seventh studio album by American recording artist and actress Jennifer Lopez, originally due for release in January 2010 before being pushed back to April 2010 with Epic Records. However following Lopez's parting with Epic in February 2010 the album was pushed back once more to the Summer of 2010. Additionally it will now serve as Lopez's debut release with Def Jam Records who are planning to release the album with a remix disc. She began writing the album during her 2007 pregnacy while recording began in 2008 and continued throughout 2009 and 2010. On the album Lopez is reunited with Rodney Jerkins who is most famous for producing her break-out hit If You Had My Love. She has also worked with Danja, Tricky Stewart and The-Dream. The album will be preceded by a number of singles so far including the viral release Fresh Out the Oven featuring Pitbull (November 2009) which though never officially released peaked at number one on the U.S. Dance Chart and the lead single Louboutins which released on December 21, 2009 also reached number one on the Dance Chart in March 2010 but failed to enter the Billboard Hot 100. According to a press release, the album is set for release in December 2010.
Jessica Simpson  In This Skin  In This Skin is the third studio album (fourth overall) by American pop singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on August 19, 2003 in the United States by Columbia Records. A version of the album with bonus tracks and a DVD was released on March 2, 2004 to build on the success of the album. Eventually, the album was certified 3x Platinum in the US, It has sold over 7 million copies worldwide, becoming Simpson's biggest selling album to date. According to Billboard magazine the album was ranked the number 153 on the list of top-selling album of the 2000s.
Jessica Simpson  Irresistible (album)  Irresistible is the second studio album by American pop singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on June 5, 2001 in the United States by Columbia Records. The album featured production from Cory Rooney, Rodney Jerkins, Walter Afanasieff, among others and featured a guest appearance from Marc Anthony. Irresistible spawned two singles, including the Top 20 hit Irresistible and its poorly received follow up A Little Bit.
Jessica Simpson  Sweet Kisses  Sweet Kisses is the debut studio album by American pop singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on November 23, 1999 in the United States by Columbia Records. The album contained two hit singles: I Wanna Love You Forever and the Jack and Diane sampled dance track I Think I'm in Love With You. Also included were two duets: Where You Are with future ex-husband Nick Lachey of 98 Degrees and Woman in Me, featuring Destiny's Child. The album has sold 2 million copies in the United States and 4 million worldwide.
Jessica Simpson  Rejoyce: The Christmas Album  Rejoyce: The Christmas Album is the fourth studio album by American pop singer Jessica Simpson, released in November 2004. It includes a duet with her sister, Ashlee Simpson, on the song Little Drummer Boy. Additionally, it also includes a duet with Nick Lachey, Simpson's husband at the time, on Baby, It's Cold Outside. The cover of Amy Grant's Breath of Heaven (Mary's Song) is notable, as Simpson has said that Amy Grant is one of her favorite recording artists and her role model. Rejoyce was certified gold by the RIAA in January 2005. Its singles are Let It Snow, Let It Snow, Let It Snow and What Christmas Means To Me (although no accompanying video was produced); the song O Holy Night has a video.
Jessica Simpson  This Is the Remix (Jessica Simpson album)  This Is the Remix is the first remix album by American pop singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on July 2, 2003 in the United States by Columbia Records. The album was sold at budget price and charted at number eighteen on Billboard's Top Electronic Albums Chart. A promotional digitally remastered millennium edition in Tri-fold digipack packaging was also released. This remix compilation was released to increase record sales for Jessica and to help promote her moderately successful album Irresistible. However, the remix compilation sold only 60,000 copies in the U.S. and 300,000 copies worldwide.
Jessica Simpson  A Public Affair  A Public Affair is the fifth studio album by American pop singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on August 26, 2006 in the United States by Epic Records. The album is Simpson's first effort following her divorce from Nick Lachey in early 2006. The UK version was released on February 12 and included the video for A Public Affair and the audio for These Boots Are Made For Walkin' as UK bonus tracks. Ultimately, it was a commercial disappointment. This is the last pop album Simpson did before switching to country. A Public Affair has shipped 500,000 units in the US and sold just 800,000 units to date(according to Nielsen SoundScan).
Jessica Simpson  Do You Know (Jessica Simpson album)  Do You Know is the sixth studio album by American singer Jessica Simpson. The album was released on September 9, 2008, in the United States by a joint-venture between Columbia Nashville and Epic Records. The album is her first effort in an attempt to cross over to country music. Songwriter Brett James produced the album along with John Shanks. The album debuted at #1 in the Billboard Country Charts and at #4 in the Billboard 200 with sales of 65,000.
Jessica Simpson  Playlist: The Very Best of Jessica Simpson  Playlist: The Very Best of Jessica Simpson is the first compilation album by American pop singer and actress Jessica Simpson, released in commemoration of her ten year in the music industry. It will be released on October 12, 2010. In the album were not included: Where You Are and Sweetest Sin.
JoJo  JoJo (album)  JoJo is the self-titled debut album by American pop and R&amp;B singer JoJo, released in the United States on June 22, 2004 by Da Family Entertainment and Blackground Records. It includes the hit singles Leave (Get Out) and Baby It's You, as well as Not That Kinda Girl, which failed to chart in the United States. The album debuted and peaked at number four on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart selling 95,000 copies in its first week. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on November 15, 2004, denoting U.S. shipments in excess of one million copies.
Jojo  JoJo (album)  JoJo is the self-titled debut album by American pop and R&amp;B singer JoJo, released in the United States on June 22, 2004 by Da Family Entertainment and Blackground Records. It includes the hit singles Leave (Get Out) and Baby It's You, as well as Not That Kinda Girl, which failed to chart in the United States. The album debuted and peaked at number four on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart selling 95,000 copies in its first week. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on November 15, 2004, denoting U.S. shipments in excess of one million copies.
JoJo  The High Road  The High Road is the second studio album by American pop-R&amp;B singer JoJo, released in the United States on October 17, 2006 by Da Family Entertainment and Blackground Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during late 2005 to mid 2006 at Glenwood Studios, Chaos Theory, Cryptic Studios, Glen Oak Studios, Noisy Neighbor Studios, Soulpower Studios (Los Angeles, California), The Hit Factory Criteria (Miami, Florida Battery Studios, Monza Studios Sony Music Studios, The Apartment, Sound Move Studios Sun Valley, Los Angeles, California) and Realsongs Studio. The album contains lyrical themes about relationships, love and break-ups, and it features musical styles such as Alternative, Pop, R&amp;B, Rock, Soul and Hip-hop.
Jojo  The High Road  The High Road is the second studio album by American pop-R&amp;B singer JoJo, released in the United States on October 17, 2006 by Da Family Entertainment and Blackground Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during late 2005 to mid 2006 at Glenwood Studios, Chaos Theory, Cryptic Studios, Glen Oak Studios, Noisy Neighbor Studios, Soulpower Studios (Los Angeles, California), The Hit Factory Criteria (Miami, Florida Battery Studios, Monza Studios Sony Music Studios, The Apartment, Sound Move Studios Sun Valley, Los Angeles, California) and Realsongs Studio. The album contains lyrical themes about relationships, love and break-ups, and it features musical styles such as Alternative, Pop, R&amp;B, Rock, Soul and Hip-hop.
JoJo  All I Want Is Everything (album)  All I Want Is Everything is the upcoming third studio album by American pop/R&amp;B singer JoJo. The album is set to be released in early 2011 by Blackground Records and Interscope Records. This will be her debut release with Interscope.
Jojo  All I Want Is Everything (album)  All I Want Is Everything is the upcoming third studio album by American pop/R&amp;B singer JoJo. The album is set to be released in early 2011 by Blackground Records and Interscope Records. This will be her debut release with Interscope.
JoJo  Can't Take That Away from Me  Can't Take That Away from Me is the first mixtape by American pop-R&amp;B singer JoJo. The free mixtape was released exclusively to Rap-Up. com on September 7, 2010, as a prelude to her third studio album All I Want Is Everything.
Jojo  Can't Take That Away from Me  Can't Take That Away from Me is the first mixtape by American pop-R&amp;B singer JoJo. The free mixtape was released exclusively to Rap-Up. com on September 7, 2010, as a prelude to her third studio album All I Want Is Everything.
Jo O'Meara  Relentless (Jo O'Meara album)  Relentless is the debut album from former S Club 7 lead singer Jo O'Meara and was released two and a half years after the pop outfit split in May 2003. Produced by Brian Rawling (Cher, Enrique Iglesias
Jo Omeara  Relentless (Jo O'Meara album)  Relentless is the debut album from former S Club 7 lead singer Jo O'Meara and was released two and a half years after the pop outfit split in May 2003. Produced by Brian Rawling (Cher, Enrique Iglesias
Justin Timberlake  Justified (album)  Justified is the debut album by American pop singer Justin Timberlake. Released during the hiatus of the group *NSYNC, the album signaled Timberlake's desire to craft a more mature image than that of a boy band member. The album features guest performances by Timbaland, Clipse, Bubba Sparxxx, and Janet Jackson. The final song, Never Again, featured Brian McKnight on nearly all of the instruments. Justified was honored with two Grammy Awards at the 2004 Grammy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles. The album was also nominated at the event for Album of the Year. The album has sold more than 7 million copies worldwide. The album won Best International Album at the 2004 Brit Awards.
Justin Randall Timberlake  Justified (album)  Justified is the debut album by American pop singer Justin Timberlake. Released during the hiatus of the group *NSYNC, the album signaled Timberlake's desire to craft a more mature image than that of a boy band member. The album features guest performances by Timbaland, Clipse, Bubba Sparxxx, and Janet Jackson. The final song, Never Again, featured Brian McKnight on nearly all of the instruments. Justified was honored with two Grammy Awards at the 2004 Grammy Awards ceremony in Los Angeles. The album was also nominated at the event for Album of the Year. The album has sold more than 7 million copies worldwide. The album won Best International Album at the 2004 Brit Awards.
Justin Timberlake  FutureSex/LoveSounds  FutureSex/LoveSounds is the second studio album by American pop and R&amp;B singer Justin Timberlake, released September 12, 2006 on Jive Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during November 2005 to July 2006 at Thomas Crown Studio in Virginia Beach, Virginia. FutureSex/LoveSounds was primarily produced by Timbaland, Danja, and Timberlake himself. The album contains lyrical themes about sex and love, and it features musical styles such as Pop, R&amp;B, Hip-hop, dance-pop, and electronic. The album was released after a four year gap in which it was revealed that Timberlake was in musical hiatus and felt unable to write anything. It was reported that as Justified was in the making for decades, it would be a challenge for Timberlake to produce an album that would be as successful as his debut. FutureSex/LoveSounds received generally positive reviews from most music critics, based on an aggregate score of 70 out of 100 from Metacritic. The album exceeded sales expectations and sold 4 million copies sold in the United States alone, and is the twenty eighth best-selling album of the 2000s. Rolling Stone
Justin Randall Timberlake  FutureSex/LoveSounds  FutureSex/LoveSounds is the second studio album by American pop and R&amp;B singer Justin Timberlake, released September 12, 2006 on Jive Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during November 2005 to July 2006 at Thomas Crown Studio in Virginia Beach, Virginia. FutureSex/LoveSounds was primarily produced by Timbaland, Danja, and Timberlake himself. The album contains lyrical themes about sex and love, and it features musical styles such as Pop, R&amp;B, Hip-hop, dance-pop, and electronic. The album was released after a four year gap in which it was revealed that Timberlake was in musical hiatus and felt unable to write anything. It was reported that as Justified was in the making for decades, it would be a challenge for Timberlake to produce an album that would be as successful as his debut. FutureSex/LoveSounds received generally positive reviews from most music critics, based on an aggregate score of 70 out of 100 from Metacritic. The album exceeded sales expectations and sold 4 million copies sold in the United States alone, and is the twenty eighth best-selling album of the 2000s. Rolling Stone
Justin Timberlake  FutureSex/LoveShow  FutureSex/LoveShow is the third concert tour by American singer-songwriter Justin Timberlake. The tour supported his second studio album, FutureSex/LoveSounds. This became Timberlake's first solo global tour, reaching North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania. The tour grossed nearly US$125 million.
Justin Randall Timberlake  FutureSex/LoveShow  FutureSex/LoveShow is the third concert tour by American singer-songwriter Justin Timberlake. The tour supported his second studio album, FutureSex/LoveSounds. This became Timberlake's first solo global tour, reaching North America, Europe, Asia and Oceania. The tour grossed nearly US$125 million.
Justin Timberlake  Justin & Christina  Justin &amp; Christina is an limited edition extended play album by American singers Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera. The album was released in the second quarter of 2003 to help promote the Justified/Stripped Tour. The EP was exclusively released to Target retail stores. It only consist of remixes of their biggest hits including one new track from each artist. The song, When, Where, How also appears on Spanish R&amp;B singer Tony Santos' debut album Alma Negra.
Justin Randall Timberlake  Justin & Christina  Justin &amp; Christina is an limited edition extended play album by American singers Justin Timberlake and Christina Aguilera. The album was released in the second quarter of 2003 to help promote the Justified/Stripped Tour. The EP was exclusively released to Target retail stores. It only consist of remixes of their biggest hits including one new track from each artist. The song, When, Where, How also appears on Spanish R&amp;B singer Tony Santos' debut album Alma Negra.
Justin Timberlake  Essential Mixes (Justin Timberlake album)  Essential Mixes is a remix album by American pop and R&amp;B singer Justin Timberlake, released September 20, 2010 on Jive. The album contains remixes of songs from Justin Timberlake's albums Justified and Future Sex/Love Sounds.
Justin Randall Timberlake  Essential Mixes (Justin Timberlake album)  Essential Mixes is a remix album by American pop and R&amp;B singer Justin Timberlake, released September 20, 2010 on Jive. The album contains remixes of songs from Justin Timberlake's albums Justified and Future Sex/Love Sounds.
Kelly Rowland  Simply Deep  Simply Deep is the debut solo album by American singer Kelly Rowland, first released by Columbia Records on October 28, 2002 in North America, and by February 3, 2003 throughout most international territories. Recorded within the three weeks during the hiatus of former group Destiny's Child and upon the success of worldwide number-one hit single Dilemma, a collaboration with rapper Nelly, the album facilitated Rowland in becoming a viable solo star. Simply Deep peaked at number twelve on the Billboard 200 in the U.S. , where it was certified gold by the RIAA for more than 600,000 copies sold. The album also topped the UK Albums Chart
Kelly Rowland  Ms. Kelly  Ms. Kelly is the second solo studio album by American R&amp;B singer Kelly Rowland. It was released by Columbia Records in collaboration with Music World Entertainment and Sony Music during the third quarter of 2007, beginning with most European territories on June 22. Rowland's first regular solo release in four years, the album was renamed and delayed numerous times prior to its official release. Originally branded My Story and expected for a mid-2006 release, the project was eventually moved to 2007 in favor of a multi-tiered marketing strategy and additional recording sessions. Willed to produce a more personal effort after fast-recorded 2002 album Simply Deep, Rowland contributed nine tracks to the re-worked version, Ms. Kelly, which took her solo work further into urban music markets, involving production by Scott Storch, Polow da Don, Soulshock &amp; Karlin and singer Tank among others. The album scored medicore commercial success, debuting with the top ten on the Billboard 200 chart, but underperformed internationally, missing the top forty on most charts elsewhere. As a consequence, Columbia released two Deluxe reissues of the album the following year, containing previously unreleased songs and remixes. As of February 2010, Ms. Kelly Deluxe and Standard edition has sold about 1.2 million copies worldwide. Exclusively at Walmart, the original Ms. Kelly was packaged with a bonus DVD titled, BET Presents Kelly Rowland. The DVD features BET highlights, performance highlights, and music videos from Rowland's solo career.
Kelly Rowland  BET Presents Kelly Rowland  BET Presents Kelly Rowland is a DVD released by the American R&amp;B singer-songwriter Kelly Rowland. The DVD consists of a candid interview with Rowland as she talks about the production of Ms. Kelly, her time as a member of Destiny's Child, and her perspective on her celebrity status and solo career. The DVD also features BET highlights, performance highlights, and music videos from throughout Rowland's career.
Kelly Rowland  Kelly Rowland (album)  Kelly Rowland is the eponymously-titled, third studio album by American singer Kelly Rowland. Serving as the singer's first project without Matthew Knowles as her manager, and as her debut release with Universal Motown following her departure from Columbia Records. A new label and management came after Rowland was inspired to take more control of her career and explore with a more worldwide sound, following success she achieved from collaborating with French DJ David Guetta on his 2009 worldwide number one dance hit When Love Takes Over. The album was originally scheduled for release on September 21, 2010 but changes in creative decisions led to the project being delayed several times to allow more studio and creative time. Studio sessions included a wide range of songwriters and producers most of whom, Rowland had never previously worked with. American songwriter Rico Love is the biggest contributor, having written half of the album's songs which crossover from R&amp;B and urban music, to dance and up-tempo records. Rowland described the mixture of genres as a reflection of the current stage of her career, to proclaim that nobody could put her in a box. The album's eponymous title was part of this declaration that she has finally found her niche and is ready to introduce people to who she really is. However she later accepted that her creative team were considering other titles, including some suggested by fans. Four singles precede the album including the David Guetta-produced lead single, Commander which topped The American Dance Club Songs and UK Dance charts. However due to the lack of success on the Billboard Hot 100, two other singles were released on June 29, 2010. Rose Colored Glasses, written by Esther Dean and produced by Dr. Luke, serves as a pop single for mainstream audiences whilst Grown Woman, produced by StarGate and penned by Ne-Yo, was released as the R&amp;B single for urban audiences. It was later revealed that different versions of the album are being prepared with more up-tempo dance records for the international editions of the album. A forth single, the Guetta &amp; Jonas Jerberg-produced  Forever and a Day, was released as the album's second international single in September 2010. The as-of-yet untitled album is set to be released in the UK on November 29, 2010. A release date for the U.S. version of the album is currently set at some time in 2011.
Kylie Minogue  Light Years (Kylie Minogue album)  Light Years is the seventh album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue and was released in 2000. It reached number two in the United Kingdom and one on the Australian album charts and number two in New Zealand being certified platinum there (15,000). Light Years is largely seen as Minogue's comeback album as it saw her return to her pop roots and to the top of the charts. Official statement on sales of Light Years is 1.3 million while according to the producer of the track Spinning Around the album sold over 3 million. Light Years is also the first album for Kylie Minogue as an new signee to the Parlophone/EMI Label.
Kylie Minogue  Fever (Kylie Minogue album)  Fever is the eighth album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue, released in late 2001 in Europe and Australia, 2002 in North America by Parlophone, Mushroom and Capitol.
Kylie Minogue  Body Language (Kylie Minogue album)  Body Language is a 2003 album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue, her ninth studio album in total. While Body Language failed to reach the chart and sales success of its predecessor, 2001's Fever, it still managed to chart in the top five in multiple countries. It has been certified 2x Platinum in Australia, selling around 140,000 copies, and has gone Platinum in the UK, selling over 378,000 copies. In addition, the album has also been certified Gold in Switzerland (20,000), Austria (10,000) and New Zealand (7,500) while 50,000 copies were sold in France, and 177,000 copies in the USA.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie Minogue (album)  Kylie Minogue is a studio album and the fifth full new material album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue, which was first released on 19 September 1994. The album was first released by Deconstruction Records/BMG throughout much of the world and by Imago Records in the US while in Australia and New Zealand the album was released by Mushroom.
Kylie Minogue  Hits+  Hits+ is a 2000 compilation album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue. It comprises recordings from Minogue's Deconstruction
Kylie Minogue  Confide in Me (album)  Confide in Me is a compilation album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue released by Deconstruction in 2001. It contains 6 tracks from Kylie Minogue (1994) and all but Breathe from Impossible Princess (1997).
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Hits 1987–1997  Greatest Hits 1987–1997 (also known as Greatest Hits 87–97) is a 2003 compilation album by Australian-born singer Kylie Minogue. Released by BMG, the album collects work from Kylie's PWL and Deconstruction periods, including the albums Kylie (1988), Enjoy Yourself (1989), Rhythm of Love (1990), Let's Get to It (1991), Greatest Hits (1992), Kylie Minogue (1994) and Impossible Princess (1997). This album is an extended version of Greatest Hits 87–92, released in 2002. In Brazil, the album sold around 6,000 copies and the DVD sold 3,000 copies.
Kylie Minogue  Impossible Princess  Impossible Princess is the sixth album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Deconstruction Records on 23 March 1998 in the United Kingdom to mixed reviews. The album was produced by Dave Ball, Ingo Vauk, and Brothers in Rhythm. Many critics complimented its maturity and personal subject matter, while others called it uninspired and unbelievable. Impossible Princess was a success in Minogue's native Australia, it reached number four on the Australian albums chart, number one on the Australian Music Report chart in January 1998 and was certified platinum for sales of 70,000 copies. The album was a commercial disappointment in the UK and only sold 44,000 copies in 1998, far below Minogue's previous albums Kylie Minogue and Let's Get to It. The album represented a change in Minogue's musical style and featured several live instruments. Impossible Princess became the first album Minogue had full creative control over, which resulted in her contributing to all of the lyrics that appeared on the album. The album was retitled Kylie Minogue at the last minute in the UK following the death of Diana, Princess of Wales in August 1997. A remastered edition of Impossible Princess was issued by BMG in 2003 with a bonus disc of remixes and B-sides.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie (album)  Kylie is the debut album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by PWL on 4 July 1988, and received mixed reviews. Chris True of Allmusic describes the album's songs as dated at best, but writes that Minogue's cuteness makes these rather vapid tracks bearable. Kylie peaked at number one in the United Kingdom, and it produced three number one singles in Australia. In North America the album peaked low on the Billboard charts, yet still managed to sell over 500,000 copies and was certified gold. In Australia, the album was re-issued as The Kylie Collection and featured bonus remixes. Kylie was certified seven times platinum in the UK and has sold over 7.5 million copies worldwide.
Kylie Minogue  Enjoy Yourself (Kylie Minogue album)  Enjoy Yourself is the second album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by PWL on 9 October 1989, and received mixed reviews. Chris True of Allmusic describes the album's songs as catchy stuff, and calls Enjoy Yourself a good companion to her debut. Rolling Stone reviewer Arion Berger gave the album one out of five stars and called it inept. Enjoy Yourself reached number one in the United Kingdom, and produced two number one singles. In January 1990, the album was certified four times platinum in the UK, and sold over one million copies within the first ten weeks of its release.
Kylie Minogue  Rhythm of Love (Kylie Minogue album)  Rhythm of Love is the third album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by PWL on 12 November 1990, and received positive reviews. Chris True of Allmusic describes the album as Minogue's best work from the Stock-Aitken-Waterman era, and writes that the songwriting is stronger, the production dynamic, and Kylie seems more confident vocally. Rhythm of Love was a top ten album in Australia and the United Kingdom, and it produced four top ten singles. In June 1991, the album was reissued as Rhythm of Love: The Gold Album and featured bonus remixes. In the UK, Rhythm of Love of was certified platinum, and has sold over 300,000 in the UK. In Australia, the original CD was issued as a 'white' picture CD.
Kylie Minogue  Let's Get to It  Let's Get to It is the fourth album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by PWL on 14 October 1991. It was well received by music critics, and it was described as being superior to Minogue's previous album releases. Let's Get to It was a top twenty album in both Minogue's native Australia and the United Kingdom.
Kylie Minogue  Intimate and Live  Intimate and Live is the title of a live album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue, released in 1998. The album was highly successful in Australia, with the track Dancing Queen receiving considerable radio airplay. Its popularity fuelled rumours that Minogue was planning a studio version for release as a single;however, this did not happen. She did, however, reprise her performance of the song at the closing ceremony of the Sydney 2000 Summer Olympics. The set list of the tour, from which the live album was recorded, is largely based on tracks from her two Deconstruction albums as well as some re-worked versions of her best known SAW hits. Also featured is a cover version of the song Should I Stay or Should I Go? by The Clash and a previously unheard track Free.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Hits (Kylie Minogue album)  Greatest Hits is a compilation album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue, released in 1992. It contains 19 singles from her albums Kylie, Enjoy Yourself, Rhythm of Love and Let's Get to It, as well as 3 songs recorded specifically for inclusion on this album. The album was largely written and produced by the Stock Aitken Waterman team, and its release marked the end of Minogue's professional relationship with them. In Australia, the album was released with completely different artwork and was available as a limited edition digi-pack. Greatest Hits entered the UK Albums Chart at number-one, becoming Minogue's third number-one album in the United Kingdom. It charted there for ten weeks and was later certified platinum for shipments of 300,000 copies. The album was also successful in Australia, debuting and peaking at number three and charting for fifteen weeks. It was later certified double platinum for shipments of 140,000 copies, by Australian Recording Industry Association. This compilation was superseded by 2004's Ultimate Kylie collection.
Kylie Minogue  Ultimate Kylie  Ultimate Kylie is the third compilation album by Australian dance-pop singer&ndash;songwriter Kylie Minogue. It was released in November 2004 by Parlophone Records. This collection superseded Kylie's 1992 Greatest Hits compilation and the 2000 compilation Hits+. It was released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions. Spanning two CDs, the album contains work from all nine of her studio albums released at that point, plus two new tracks, I Believe in You (written with the Scissor Sisters) and Giving You Up (written with Xenomania
Kylie Minogue  Impossible Remixes  Impossible Remixes is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records on August 10, 1998 in Australia only. The album contained remixes of songs from Minogue's sixth studio album Impossible Princess (1998). Unlike Minogue's United Kingdom only remix album Mixes (1998), Impossible Remixes featured a mix of Breathe by TNT that did not appear on the British release.
Kylie Minogue  Other Sides  Other Sides is an EP that was released along with the album Impossible Princess at Australian HMV music stores. The original EP entitled Live and Other Sides was withdrawn from release at the last minute.
Kylie Minogue  Mixes  Mixes is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Deconstruction Records on August 3, 1998 in the United Kingdom. First released as a special edition vinyl album, it was later released as a double-CD album due to the high demand from Minogue's fans. Mixes debuted at number sixty-three on the UK albums chart, staying on the chart for one week before leaving the top seventy-five.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie's Non-Stop History 50+1  Kylie's Non-Stop History 50+1 is a compilation album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue. It was released on July 1st, 1993 in Japan and in the United Kingdom it was released in October 1993. The album contained clips of most of Minogue's songs released during her PWL period plus the Techno Rave Mix of Celebration. All the tracks ran into each other creating a megamix. The album peaked at number 68 in the United Kingdom. The album reached number fifty-nine on the Japanese Oricon albums chart selling 13,660 copies.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie's Remixes Volume 2  Kylie's Remixes Volume 2 is a remix album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by PWL in July 1992 in Japan. The following year it was released on May 5, 1993 in Australia by Mushroom Records.
Kylie Minogue  Let's Get to It Tour  The Let's Get to It Tour was a Kylie Minogue concert tour that took place in the UK and Ireland in late 1991. At the request of British fans, the tour became a continuation of the previous Rhythm of Love Tour. Together with five dancers, Minogue staged the tour in support of the album Let's Get to It. The show comprised an all-new wardrobe created exclusively by John Galliano and several new additions to the set list, many of which were written by Minogue herself. This article requires authentication or verification by an expert. Please assist in recruiting an expert or improve this article yourself. See the talk page for details. This was Minogue's first major tour, an extension of her 1990 Rhythm of Love Tour to promote the Rhythm of Love album and its less successful Let's Get to It follow up. With the Rhythm of Love album, people were introduced to a more sexual and playful Minogue, however this backfired somewhat with its follow up, which failed to crack the top 10 in the UK and her native Australia. The Let's Get to It Tour was seen as a chance to promote the more soulful tracks on the latter album and thus warranted a different set list and wardrobe to accompany the songs. She chose to work with John Galliano for the costumes which came up with near-identical costumes to those worn by Madonna on her phenomenally successful Blond Ambition World Tour from the previous year. This drew negative criticism from several quarters, who accused Kylie of trying to become the next Madonna. The press at the time ran unflattering photos of her which were meant to accuse her of being too amateur to follow in Madonna's footsteps. Kylie has since said of that phase that she does not regret doing what she did but can see why it drew such negative comparisons. She went on to elaborate that Madonna had done all there was to be done at that time and that it made it difficult for her to explore her sexuality without looking to the most successful female for inspiration. Minogue went on to add that she has always been influenced by and inspired by Madonna, citing her as a major influence on the earlier part of her career. Minogue also went on to collaborate with Madonna's long-term boyfriend and hitmaker of the 1980s for her, Stephen Bray. He carved a more sexual sound for Kylie with several tracks penned and produced for her Rhythm of Love album. The press at the time noted that her connections with Madonna were more than just inspiration. Pete Waterman later went on record to say that even in Minogue's early years when she was outselling Madonna in Europe, still she wanted to be her. Minogue craved the sexuality and credibility Madonna had garnered right from the start of her career with hits like Holiday and Like a Virgin. Minogue would have to wait almost 12 years to gain that kind of acceptance among music critics for her work on the hit Can't Get You Out of My Head, but to many loyal fans, despite the references to Madonna, this tour remains her core-fan favourite. Minogue would go on to publicly thank Madonna, covering the Queen of Pop's hit Vogue during her Showgirl Tour in 2005, a testament to the inspiration behind this tour and much of Minogue's creative choices.
Kylie Minogue  Disco in Dream/The Hitman Roadshow  The Disco in Dream/The Hitman Roadshow tour is Australian dance-pop singer Kylie Minogue's first tour, produced in late 1989. The tour took place in Japan and, later, UK, under the name of The Coca-Cola Hitman Roadshow, as free concerts to thank British fans' support.
Kylie Minogue  Showgirl EP  Showgirl is a digital only EP by singer Kylie Minogue. Released along with her first digital single Over the Rainbow, the Showgirl EP included 8 of Kylie's biggest hits, live from London in 2005. It is available for purchase on 7digital, iTunes and other digital stores around the world.
Kylie Minogue  Money Can't Buy  Money Can't Buy was a one-off, invitation only concert in support of Kylie Minogue's 2003 album, Body Language held at the Hammersmith Apollo in London, England. This event cost £1 million to stage and tickets were not available for sale. The concert was later released on DVD under the name Body Language Live.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie Minogue: Artist Collection  Kylie Minogue: Artist Collection is a compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by BMG International on 20 September 2004 in the United Kingdom. The album contained songs from Minogue's two Deconstruction Records album's Kylie Minogue (1994) and Impossible Princess (1997), as well as rare songs and B-sides. In Brazil the album sold 1,000 copies.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Remix Hits 4  Greatest Remix Hits 4 is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records on August 21, 1998 in Australia only. The album contained rare and previously unavailable remixes of songs from Minogue's studio albums with PWL from 1987 to 1992.
Kylie Minogue  The Kylie Collection  The Kylie Collection is the first compilation album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in 1988 in Australia and New Zealand. The album included songs from Minogue debut as well as remixes of her popular single releases. It was also released on VHS in Australia only in 1988.
Kylie Minogue  Showgirl Homecoming Live  Showgirl Homecoming Live is a live album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. It was recorded during the second night of Minogue's Showgirl - The Homecoming Tour in Sydney, Australia and was released by Parlophone on 8 January 2007 in Europe. The album reached number seven on the United Kingdom albums chart and was certified silver. The album omitted Butterfly - Sandstorm Dub Interlude.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Remix Hits 2  Greatest Remix Hits 2 is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in 1997 in Australia only. The album contained rare and previously unavailable remixes of songs from Minogue's studio albums with PWL from 1987 to 1992.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Hits 1987–1999  Greatest Hits 1987–1999 is a 2003 compilation album by Australian singer Kylie Minogue. The album was a budget release, released only in Australia during the same month as Minogue's ninth studio album Body Language. The track list is an extension of her 1992 Greatest Hits compilation, adding the singles released during the Deconstruction period (1994–1999). The accompanying DVD (titled Greatest Hits 87–98) features every Minogue music video released during the PWL and Deconstruction years (the only Minogue DVD to do so). Although an Australian release, the UK videos for The Loco-Motion and Word Is Out are included instead of the Australian versions of Locomotion and Word Is Out (Summer Breeze 7 Mix). However these are included on the CD album.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie Showgirl  Kylie Showgirl is a live DVD by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. Filmed during Minogue's Showgirl: The Greatest Hits Tour on 6 May 2005 at Earls Court Exhibition Centre in London, England, it was released by EMI on 25 November 2005 in Europe.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie's Remixes Volume 1  Kylie's Remixes Volume 1 is a remix compilation of Kylie Minogue that was released in Japan in 16 March 1989, it reached the top thirty on the Oricon Charts being certified Gold. It was later released in Australia in 1993 and reissued in 1998. This compilation include remixes of nine of her early Aitken/Stock/Waterman hits.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Remix Hits 1  Greatest Remix Hits 1 is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in 1997 in Australia only. The album contained rare and previously unavailable remixes of songs from Minogue's studio albums with PWL from 1987 to 1992.
Kylie Minogue  Greatest Remix Hits 3  Greatest Remix Hits 3 is a remix album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records on August 21, 1998 in Australia only. The album contained rare and previously unavailable remixes of songs from Minogue's studio albums with PWL from 1987 to 1992.
Kylie Minogue  Confide in Me: The Irresistible Kylie  Confide in Me: The Irresistible Kylie is a compilation album by Australian pop–dance singer Kylie Minogue. It was released by Music Club on July 16, 2007 in the United Kingdom. The album contains every song from Minogue's two Deconstruction Records albums Kylie Minogue (1994) and Impossible Princess (1997), as well as rare songs and B-sides.
Kylie Minogue  Ultimate Kylie (DVD)  Ultimate Kylie (DVD) was simultaneously released with the Ultimate Kylie greatest hits compilation of Kylie Minogue, containing all the music videos of the CDs, only with the exception of Giving You Up (which at the time had not been filmed). It also contains Minogue's performance at the 2002 BRIT Awards of Can't Get Blue Monday Out of My Head: this was a mix of her song Can't Get You Out of My Head and New Order's Blue Monday. Early versions of the UK DVD are known to suffer from the DVD rot phenomena, after a short period of time, where the playing surface becomes incredibly cloudy or forms a 'cracked' pattern. EMI UK have not publicly addressed this issue, however they offered free replacements to those who returned their damaged copies. The DVD also contains on-screen lyrics. Advertisements for the album and DVD claimed it contained every single Minogue had released in the UK. These were misleading, as several of her charting singles were not included. The hit singles that are missing are: It's No Secret, Word Is Out, If You Were with Me Now, Finer Feelings, What Kind of Fool (Heard All That Before), Where Is the Feeling?, GBI: German Bold Italic and Some Kind of Bliss. International hits missing were It's No Secret, Turn It into Love (although there was no official video for the latter), the Australian single Cowboy Style and Your Disco Needs You. The DVD also excluded the Australian version of The Loco-Motion, which was released as Locomotion in July 1987. Many of the missing videos are available on the 2003 Australian DVD release Greatest Hits 1987–1999.
Kylie Minogue  KylieFever2002: Live in Manchester  KylieFever2002: Live in Manchester is a live DVD filmed at a concert in Manchester, on May 4, 2002 of Kylie Minogue's concert tour KylieFever2002. The DVD contains the full two-hour concert, a 30-minute behind-the-scenes documentary, live projections of the songs Cowboy Style, Light Years/I Feel Love, I Should Be So Lucky, and Burning Up, and a photo-gallery. A limited edition version was also released, with slightly different packaging and a bonus CD with highlights from the KylieFever2002 concert. KylieFever2002: Live in Manchester reached #16 on U.S. Billboard's Top Music Video chart.
Kylie Minogue  Body Language Live  Body Language Live is the DVD recording of Kylie Minogue's promotional concert Money Can't Buy. Minogue performed tracks from her 2004 album, Body Language, alongside her biggest hits. The DVD also contains the music videos of Slow, Red Blooded Woman and Chocolate; a short documentary, a multi-angle function, a gallery with 2 screensavers, 4 wallpapers and a weblink.
Kylie Minogue  X (Kylie Minogue album)  X is the tenth studio album by Australian recording artist Kylie Minogue. It is her first release since 2004's greatest hits compilation Ultimate Kylie, and her first studio album since 2003's Body Language. X was preceded by lead single 2 Hearts and released worldwide in November 2007. The American release of X came in April 2008, preceded by the single All I See. Work on the album began following Minogue's gradual recovery from breast cancer and subsequent radiotherapy treatment. Her cancer, which was diagnosed in May 2005, resulted in the postponement of Showgirl: The Greatest Hits Tour tour midway through its run. Minogue resumed the tour in late 2006, in the midst of recording X, and was completed later in the following year. In addition to positive critical reception, X was nominated for a BRIT Award for Best International Album and debuted at #1 in Australia, and in the top five in the United Kingdom. No official statement has been given on the sales of X but according to the UK newspaper The Times, as of December 2008, X had sold one million copies worldwide. On 3 December 2008 it was announced that X had been nominated at the 51st Grammy Awards in the category of Best Electronic/Dance Album, making it Minogue's 5th Grammy Award nomination.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie: The Videos  Kylie: The Videos is a VHS release by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. The music video collection was released in November 1988 in the United Kingdom, Germany, France and Japan.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie Live: X2008  Kylie Live: X2008 is the 2008 DVD and Blu-ray Disc release of Kylie Minogue's tenth concert tour, KylieX2008. The film features the entire concert (shot in Super 16 format) along with a documentary, stage back-drop projections, conceptual designs, and a photo gallery.
Kylie Minogue  Boombox (Kylie Minogue album)  Boombox: The Remix Album 2000-2008 is a remix album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue, released by Parlophone on 5 January 2009. The album contains remixes produced between 2000 and 2008, including a remix of the previously unreleased title track, Boombox. Most of the remixes featured on the compilation are edited down from their original form to be able to fit on the physical disc. Please Stay and Chocolate are only two singles released from this era that do not appear on the album in a remixed form. Kids, the duet with Robbie Williams, also does not appear as at the time of the single's release, no remixes were ever commissioned. On December 11, 2008, it was announced that the album would be released in the United States, to coincide with her nomination for the Grammy Awards of 2009.
Kylie Minogue  Live in Sydney  Live in Sydney is the 2001 DVD release of Kylie Minogue's On a Night Like This Tour. The DVD features exclusive backstage footage of the concert, including a look into the dancers dressing rooms and a prank played on Kylie during the show entitled 'Will Kylie Crack'. The DVD was certified 3x Platinum in Australia.
Kylie Minogue  Intimate and Live (DVD)  Intimate and Live is a DVD release of Kylie Minogue's Intimate and Live Tour. It was filmed in Capitol Theatre, Sydney. Australia on July 1, 1998 and released on July 23, 2002.
Kylie Minogue  Darling (EP)  Darling is a promotional EP by Australian singer Kylie Minogue. It was given out free at the launch of Minogue's perfume of the same name, at Harrods on 9 February 2007. It features two album tracks and three lives track from her 2005 Showgirl: The Greatest Hits Tour.
Kylie Minogue  The Videos (Kylie Minogue VHS)  The Videos is the first VHS release by Australian singer-songwriter Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in Australia only in 1988.
Kylie Minogue  The Kylie Tapes 94–98  The Kylie Tapes 94–98 is the VHS release by Australian singer-songwriter Kylie Minogue. It was released by Mushroom Records in 1998 in Australia only. It contains her music videos from 1994 to 1998.
Kylie Minogue  The Videos 2  The Videos 2 is a VHS release by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. The music video collection was released in November 1989 in the United Kingdom, Australia and Japan.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie: Live in New York  Kylie: Live in New York is a live album by Australian singer-songwriter, Kylie Minogue. The album is a live recording of her eleventh concert tour, For You, For Me Tour, during her performance at the Hammerstein Ballroom in New York City. The album was released on December 14, 2009, exclusively to online digital media stores. The album doesn't include Better Than Today, which was not included due to it appearing on Minogue's forthcoming album Aphrodite. Minogue's official YouTube page streamed a live recording of the first half of the concert on 12 December 2009.
Kylie Minogue  Aphrodite (album)  Aphrodite is the eleventh studio album by Australian recording artist Kylie Minogue. It is her first studio album in three years, since her 2007 release, X. Aphrodite was preceded by the release of lead single All the Lovers and was released worldwide in July 2010. The album has debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart, on the same week as her debut album, Kylie, debuted 22 years ago in 1988. It is her fifth album to reach number one. Minogue is the only female recording artist to date in UK chart history to have a number one album in four consecutive decades.
Kylie Minogue  Essential Mixes (Kylie Minogue album)  Essential Mixes is a remix album by Australian pop singer Kylie Minogue. The album was released on September 20, 2010 and includes remixes of songs from studio albums Kylie Minogue and Impossible Princess.
Lene Nystrøm Rasted  Play with Me (album)  Play with Me is the debut and only studio album by Scandinavia singer Lene. The album was released on September 21, 2003. The album was released her band Aqua split in 2001. It marked a change in her musical style, from the bubblegum sound of Aqua to a more R&amp;B-influenced style.
Luis Miguel  Romances  Romances is a bolero album by Luis Miguel, released in 1997. It won the Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Performance at the 1998
Luis Miguel  Romance (Luis Miguel album)  Romance is a bolero album released by singer Luis Miguel in 1991. The album was a massive success across Spain, Latin-America, and the United States, where it has been certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America. Romance was nominated in 1992 for a Grammy in the category of Best Latin Pop Album, losing to Vicki Carr's Cosas del Amor. Also received a nomination for Album of the Year on the Eres Magazine awards held in México in 1991. In 1992 the album was nominated again in the same field and won. To date, Romance remains the biggest seller for Luis Miguel in Mexico with sales (only in that country) of seven million copies. It's widely considered as the album who brought bolero music back to mainstream. After the success of this album many singers like Daniela Romo and Charlie Zaa recorded boleros. Also, on the Top Latin albums charts in US the album peaked at number three. http://www. billboard. com/bbcom/retrieve_chart_history. do?model. chartFormatGroupName=Albums&amp;model. vnuArtistId=32851&amp;model. vnuAlbumId=811613. This album register high sales in countries like Japan, Singapore, Finland, Norway, Germany, Taiwan, Czech Republic, Australia, and other ones. Worldwide, this album sold 15 million record, turning it into the highest-selling Spanish-language album in history.
Luis Miguel  Segundo Romance  Segundo Romance (Second Romance) is the 15th studio album released by Mexican singer Luis Miguel on August 30, 1994 by Warner Music Group. The album was produced by Miguel himself and co-produced by Armando Manzanero, Juan Carlos Calderón, and Kiko Cibrian. Segundo Romance became one of the biggest-selling album by Miguel in the United States and Latin America, earning album certifications in several countries. It was second best-selling Latin album of the year and the best-selling Latin album of the 1990s
Luis Miguel  Aries (album)  Aries is album by Mexican singer Luis Miguel released in 1993. The album was produced by Luis Miguel, Emilio Castillo, Rudy Pérez and Kiko Cibrian. With sales of over 4 millions the album proved to be one of the singer's most successful albums. At the 1994 Grammy Awards the album won the Best Latin Pop Album field, beating Maria Conchita Alonso, Vikki Carr, Jose Feliciano and Las Triplets. The album was also awarded Pop Album of the Year at the 1994 Premio Lo Nuestro awards.
Luis Miguel  Amarte Es Un Placer  Amarte es un Placer, is an album by Mexican singer Luis Miguel. It was released on September 14th, 1999. With this album the artist won three Latin Grammy Awards in 2000 (Album of the Year, Best Pop Album and Best Male Pop Vocal Performance for the track Tu Mirada. The album was finally certified platinum on October 17, 2007. It also received a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album.
Luis Miguel  Nada Es Igual (Luis Miguel album)  Nada Es Igual... is an album performed and produced by Luis Miguel. It was released on August 20, 1996. The album received a Best Latin Pop Performance nomination on the 1997 Grammy Awards. This was the seventh major studio album made by Luis Miguel, and is also one of the most successful albums by the artist, selling over 5 million copies worldwide. This was the last album made by Luis Miguel before receiving a star in the Hollywood Walk Of Fame. In this album is also the Spanish version of Someday called Sueña. This was one of the singles of the album, along with Dame and Como Es Posible Que A Mi Lado
Luis Miguel  Busca Una Mujer  Busca Una Mujer, or commonly known as Un Hombre Busca Una Mujer, is an album by superstar Luis Miguel. It was produced by Juan Carlos Calderón, and released in 1988, as the second album released with Warner Music. The first single (and most successful) was La Incondicional which spent seven months on the Top Ten of many charts in Latin-America. The success of this single almost overshadowed the rest of the singles released from the album (Fría Como El Viento, Culpable O No , Un Hombre Busca Una Mujer, Esa Niña, Por Favor Señora and Separados). The video for the single La Incondicional was directed by Pedro Torres, and was one of the first super-productions presented in Mexico. The story was about a man who serve for the Army in his country, and separates from the love of his life. The video was a little shocking for the fans because Luis Miguel's look at the time was a semi-long hair, and in the video he has with a military look with very short hair. He eventually regrew his hair for the video of his second single, Fria Como El Viento. By the end of 1989, he cut his hair after the videoclip got heavy runtime in television and in preparation for his 20th birthday. On the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks Year-End Chart of 1989 the single La Incondicional appears at #3.
Luis Miguel  Mis Romances  Mis Romances is a best-selling album from Mexican superstar Luis Miguel and was released in 2001. Once again was produced by the artist himself. Three singles were released from the album: Amor, Amor, Amor. Como Duele (#1 in México and #1 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks) and Al Que Me Siga. This is the fourth album from Luis Miguel devoted to bolero music.
Luis Miguel  Mexico En La Piel  México En La Piel is an album recorded by Mexican Superstar Luis Miguel released in November 9, 2004. It's his first album to be featured in mariachi. The album was re-released twice. One featured bonus tracks and was simply titled México En La Piel: Bonus Tracks. Another edition was titled México En La Piel : Edición Diamante. Both were released in September 6, 2005. This album won the Latin Grammy Award for Best Ranchero Album at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2005 and also the Grammy Award for Best Mexican/Mexican-American Album.
Luis Miguel  20 Años  20 Años is an album by Mexican superstar Luis Miguel released in 1990. The album was produced by Juan Carlos Calderón, who had worked on the two previous albums by Luis Miguel, and was a massive success across Latin-America, Spain, and with Hispanic listeners in the United States. Almost all the tracks of the album were played on the radio, nevertheless, the official singles released were: Entrégate, Tengo Todo Excepto a Tí, Amante del Amor, Hoy El Aire Huele a Tí and Será Que No Me Amas. It received a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album. This album was the album that confirm the success that Luis Miguel had reached with his last album Busca Una Mujer. The album broke the record of more copies in one weekend only in Mexico (600,000 copies during the release weekend). Será Que No Me Amas had an official choreography that remains popular in Mexico to date.
Luis Miguel  América & En Vivo  América &amp; En Vivo is an EP album by Mexican superstar Luis Miguel released in 1992. The only new track was the single America, America, which spent 4 weeks at #1 in Mexico and peaked at #20 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks Chart. The rest of the tracks were the first three singles released from Romance (the artist previous album) and were recorded live during a concert in the National Auditorium in Mexico City. The EP peaked at #30 on the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart. It is rumored that ABC approached Miguel for a deal to use América, América in a special celebrating the anniversary of Christopher Columbus' discovery of America, but the deal fell apart because ABC wanted him to re-record the song in English, but he was unwilling to do so. It is also said that the song's English portion was his only concession to ABC's wishes.
Luis Miguel  Navidades  Navidades is a Christmas album by Mexican singer Luis Miguel released in November 14, 2006. The album is the first Christmas album released by the singer and peaked at #51 on the Billboard 200 Chart. Two promo singles were released: Mi Humilde Oración and Santa Claus Llegó a la Ciudad. The album was produced by Luis Miguel. Longtime collaborator Juan Carlos Calderón (along with Edgar Cortázar) did all the Spanish adaptations of the tracks. This album received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Latin Pop Album at the 50th Grammy Awards.
Luis Miguel  Soy Como Quiero Ser  Soy Como Quiero Ser is the first album recorded by Mexican singer Luis Miguel on his current label Warner Music. The album was subtitled Luis Miguel '87: Soy Como Quiero Ser and was the first of many collaborations with longtime producer Juan Carlos Calderón. The singers Laura Branigan and Rocío Banquells appear on two of the album's tracks. The majority of the songs included are covers from the 60's, 70's and 80's. It received a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album.
Luis Miguel  Palabra de Honor (album)  Palabra de Honor (Word of Honour) is an album released by Mexican performer Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri in 1984 with his then record label EMI. It was heavily promoted in México. The single Isabel was ranked at number 70 on the VH1 Top 100 of Greatest Songs of the 80's in Spanish. It also includes a duet with Scottish singer Sheena Easton, Me Gustas Tal Como Eres, which received a Grammy Award for Best Mexican-American Performance, beating Concavo y Convexo by Roberto Carlos, Un Amor Especial by Yolanda del Río, Recuerdos II by Juan Gabriel and Eternamente Tuyo by Raphael.
Luis Miguel  Un Sol  Un Sol (a.k.a. 1 + 1 = 2 Enamorados) is the first album released by Mexican singer Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri. Released in 1981, Miguel was eleven years old.
Luis Miguel  Directo Al Corazón  Directo Al Corazón is the second album released by Mexican singer Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri and was released in 1982.
Luis Miguel  Decídete  Decídete is the third album released by Mexican singer Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri. It was released in 1983.
Luis Miguel  Ya Nunca Más  Ya Nunca Más is a soundtrack album for a movie of the same title by Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri, which was released in 1984.
Luis Miguel  Tambien es Rock  También Es Rock is an album released on 1984 by Mexican singer Luis Miguel. All the track are covers mostly from songs by Elvis Presley.
Luis Miguel  Grandes Éxitos (Luis Miguel album)  Grandes Exitos is the first greatest hits collection released from Mexican singer Luis Miguel under the Warner Music label. It was released on November 22, 2005. As expected, many of the artist's singles were not included, but two new songs were: Misterios del Amor (#29 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks) and Si Te Perdiera (#47 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks).
Luis Miguel  El Concierto  El Concierto is the first live album recorded by Mexican singer Luis Miguel. The album was recorded in August 1994 during the promotional tour of the album Segundo Romance and included three Mexican standards composed by José Alfredo Jiménez (and recorded for the first time by the artist with mariachi): Si Nos Dejan, Amanecí En Tus Brazos and El Rey. The album won in the Best Album category at the Eres Magazine awards in 1995.
Luis Miguel  Mis Boleros Favoritos  Mis Boleros Favoritos is an album released by Mexican singer Luis Miguel on 2002. It's a collection of his favorite songs of the bolero albums on his discography. A deluxe edition of the album contains a DVD with seven videos from this romantic era of the singer. As a bonus track the single Hasta Que Vuelvas is included, a brand new song written by Felipe Garza Bojalil and Mario Arturo Ramos Muñoz, produced by Bebu Silvetti. The single received a Latin Grammy nomination for Record of the Year in 2003 and peaked at #16 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks chart.
Luis Miguel  30 Exitos Insuperables  30 Exitos Insuperables, is another collection released by EMI Latin, with songs recorded by Mexican singer Luis Miguel through the first five years of his musical career. It was released on May 6, 2003.
Luis Miguel  14 Grandes Exitos  14 Grandes Exitos, is a greatest hits album, released in 1989 by label EMI Music with songs recorded by Mexican singer Luis Miguel.
Luis Miguel  Vivo (Luis Miguel album)  Vivo is the second live album recorded by singer Luis Miguel. It was released on 3 October 2000. This concert was recorded on April 18, 2000 in Monterrey, Mexico during the last presentation of Luis Miguel's Amarte Es Un Placer Tour in Mexico. For this recording the artist received a Latin Grammy nomination on 2001 for Best Male Pop Vocal Album and also a nomination for a Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Album on 43rd Grammy Awards. It includes two songs never recorded before by the artist: Y and La Bikina, which were released as singles. Together with the CD, it was released a music video (in format VHS and DVD) with the entire concert.
Luis Miguel  Amándote A La Italiana  The release of Amándote A La Italiana was meant to compile Luis Miguel's recordings in the Italian language. This album was originally released in 1985 under the name of Luis Miguel: Canta In Italiano, and in 1992, was re-released also as Collezione Privata (Private Collection). In countries like Argentina, Chile and Italy this album is also known as Noi, Ragazzi di Oggi (We, the boys of today)
Luis Miguel  Cómplices  Cómplices is a studio album released by Mexican pop singer Luis Miguel. The album was released worldwide on May 6, 2008. It is one of the most highly anticipated projects by the artist. The first rumors about this disc was that it was going to be a duet album, but it was not until March of that same year that the first details of the album were released. For this album, the singer received a Grammy Award nomination for Best Latin Pop Vocal Album.
Luis Miguel  Un Año de Conciertos  Un Año De Conciertos is a VHS video from the Mexican singer Luis Miguel. It was recorded in 1989 during the presentations of the artist by various places in Mexico after the release of his last album (at that time), Busca Una Mujer. This video records (as the same title and an explanation in the video by Luis Miguel) one year of presentations. The video contains around 80 minutes of the concerts, and the other 5 minutes include an interview that Luis Miguel made specially for the video. The interview is cut and put in some parts of the video sequentially.
Luis Miguel  Luis Miguel: 20 Años  Luis Miguel: 20 Años (also known as Gira 20 Años or Premier 1991) is a VHS Video from the Mexican singer Luis Miguel. It was recorded in 1991 during the presentations of the artist with the Gira 20 Años by various places in Mexico after the release of his last album (at that time) 20 Años. This tour is considered to be the first grand tour by Luis Miguel, with presentations in all Mexico, and in various cities of the United States. This video records a presentation of the artist in the now destroyed Centro de Espectaculos Premier (Premier Shows Center). The video contains around 90 minutes of the concerts, and the other 10 minutes include an interview that Luis Miguel made specially for the video. In this video Luis Miguel sang his pop songs, but the special feature of this video is that Luis Miguel sang 2 songs in Italian, and also 10 minutes of never-released songs in Trio (guitar).
Luis Miguel  Romance: En Vivo  Romance: En Vivo is a VHS Video from Mexican singer Luis Miguel that was recorded in 1992 during the concert tour called Tour Romance (also known as Gira Romance) that Luis Miguel perform in various places like Caracas, Venezuela, in the Circus Maximus Theatre in Las Vegas, Nevada, in a concert in Sevilla, Spain, and in the National Auditorium in Mexico City, where he broke the World Record by selling the 10,000 tickets for his only show in 3 hours. This means that the tickets were sold in an average of 52 tickets per minute The production of this video consists in taping all the concerts mentioned above. The result is that in the tape are featured parts of all concerts, making it in one tape with all the songs performed there. Because the concerts were taped entirely, a years later were broadcast by various countries around South America and Mexico. From the show in the National Auditorium was recorded an EP that was released as America &amp; En Vivo
Luis Miguel  Meu Sonho Perdido  Meu Sonho Perdido is a Portuguese album by Luis Miguel, which was released in 1985. There was also a Mexican Version of the LP Palabra De Honor.
Luis Miguel  Fiebre de Amor (album)  Fiebre de Amor (Fever of love) is a soundtrack album from the Mexican film of the same title. It was released in 1985 on the EMI Capitol label. Mostly is performed by Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri with a few interventions from Lucero, the two were a couple on the motion picture (and some say that the romance translated to real life). Due to the enormous success, this soundtrack was also recorded in Italian language.
Luis Miguel  No Culpes a La Noche  No Culpes a La Noche - The Club Remixes is a remix album from Mexican singer Luis Miguel. The album made its debut on number 16 to later climb up to number 3 in the Top 100 Mexican Charts. Luis Miguel's latest work has been certified gold and platinum for shipments of over 120,000 copies. On States side, the album charted for a week at #180 on the Billboard 200 and peaked at number 4 in the Billboard Latin Albums Charts.
Luis Miguel  Luis Miguel (album)  Luis Miguel is a self-titled studio album released worldwide by Mexican pop singer Luis Miguel on September 14, 2010. This album celebrates the singer's 30 years in music.
Mya  Moodring  Moodring is the third studio album by American singer Mýa, released in the United States on July 22, 2003 by Interscope Records. Her final album with the record company, and album released in the U.S. to date. It featured production several producers and songwriters, including Ron Fair, Missy Elliott, Timbaland, Rockwilder, Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis, and Knobody among others. Released two years after the number-one success of Lady Marmalade, the album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 chart but had a short run on the charts, resulting into medicore domestic sales of 597,000 copies and a gold certification by the RIAA. Outside the states, Moodring scored minor success, missing the top forty on the majority of the charts it appeared on except for Canada. The critical response to Moodring was generally positive, garnering Mýa her strongest reception yet, with Allmusic praising Mýa for coming up with her best and most varied set of songs yet. At the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards My Love Is Like... Wo earned Mýa two nominations for Best Dance Video and Best Choreography. While lead single My Love Is Like... Wo reached the top twenty in the United States and top forty elsewhere in countries like the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and Ireland, the album's second single Fallen failed to duplicate its success. In late 2005, after five years with the company Mýa left Interscope Records due to creative differences, making Moodring her last studio album on the label.
Mýa  Moodring  Moodring is the third studio album by American singer Mýa, released in the United States on July 22, 2003 by Interscope Records. Her final album with the record company, and album released in the U.S. to date. It featured production several producers and songwriters, including Ron Fair, Missy Elliott, Timbaland, Rockwilder, Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis, and Knobody among others. Released two years after the number-one success of Lady Marmalade, the album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 chart but had a short run on the charts, resulting into medicore domestic sales of 597,000 copies and a gold certification by the RIAA. Outside the states, Moodring scored minor success, missing the top forty on the majority of the charts it appeared on except for Canada. The critical response to Moodring was generally positive, garnering Mýa her strongest reception yet, with Allmusic praising Mýa for coming up with her best and most varied set of songs yet. At the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards My Love Is Like... Wo earned Mýa two nominations for Best Dance Video and Best Choreography. While lead single My Love Is Like... Wo reached the top twenty in the United States and top forty elsewhere in countries like the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and Ireland, the album's second single Fallen failed to duplicate its success. In late 2005, after five years with the company Mýa left Interscope Records due to creative differences, making Moodring her last studio album on the label.
Mya  Fear of Flying (album)  Fear of Flying is the second studio album by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released April 25, 2000 on Interscope Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during late 1999 to early 2000. Mýa worked with a wide range of producers and songwriters on the album which included Rodney Jerkins, Swizz Beatz, Wyclef Jean, Knobody, Robin Thicke, Tricky Stewart, and Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis to embrace a more mature sound. Fear of Flying is a metaphor for the ups and downs of life. It's about handling things like an adult, knowing you must have faith to make anything happen. The album showcases Mýa experimenting with a wider genre of music such as reggae, jazz, soul, and hip-hop and serves as a departure from her conventional structure of her debut studio album Mýa (1998); representing a musical promise fulfilled, combining saucy femininity and no-nonsense assurdness. It is the sound of a budding composer and song stylist discovering her creative voice and reflections of being in love for the very first time, experience success, and the fears of fame. Fear of Flying spawned three singles including; the Swizz Beatz-produced street savvy anthem The Best of Me featuring Jadakiss and worldwide pop sensational hits Case of the Ex and Free. The former was an instant success worldwide, it reached the top twenty in over seven countries including United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Beligum and Netherlands. The latter became an international hit; it reached the top twenty in two countries the United Kingdom and Australia. Fear of Flying debuted at number fifteen on Billboard 200 chart on May 13, 2000 with first-week sales of 72,000 copies. Upon its release, the album seem be suffering from the dreaded sophomore slump. The first single, The Best of Me under-performed on the charts, not even making it into the pop Top 40. The follow-up, Case of the Ex proved to be a different matter. Interscope Records intelligently issued a commercial single for the song, which helped propel it to number two, and in turn solidified the album as a hit; re-releasing Fear of Flying on November 7, 2000 with two previous unreleased tracks. The album earned a platinum certification by Recording Industry Association of America on March 28, 2001 and two gold certification by Australian Recording Industry Association and Canadian Recording Industry Association.
Mýa  Fear of Flying (album)  Fear of Flying is the second studio album by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released April 25, 2000 on Interscope Records. Recording sessions for the album took place during late 1999 to early 2000. Mýa worked with a wide range of producers and songwriters on the album which included Rodney Jerkins, Swizz Beatz, Wyclef Jean, Knobody, Robin Thicke, Tricky Stewart, and Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis to embrace a more mature sound. Fear of Flying is a metaphor for the ups and downs of life. It's about handling things like an adult, knowing you must have faith to make anything happen. The album showcases Mýa experimenting with a wider genre of music such as reggae, jazz, soul, and hip-hop and serves as a departure from her conventional structure of her debut studio album Mýa (1998); representing a musical promise fulfilled, combining saucy femininity and no-nonsense assurdness. It is the sound of a budding composer and song stylist discovering her creative voice and reflections of being in love for the very first time, experience success, and the fears of fame. Fear of Flying spawned three singles including; the Swizz Beatz-produced street savvy anthem The Best of Me featuring Jadakiss and worldwide pop sensational hits Case of the Ex and Free. The former was an instant success worldwide, it reached the top twenty in over seven countries including United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, Beligum and Netherlands. The latter became an international hit; it reached the top twenty in two countries the United Kingdom and Australia. Fear of Flying debuted at number fifteen on Billboard 200 chart on May 13, 2000 with first-week sales of 72,000 copies. Upon its release, the album seem be suffering from the dreaded sophomore slump. The first single, The Best of Me under-performed on the charts, not even making it into the pop Top 40. The follow-up, Case of the Ex proved to be a different matter. Interscope Records intelligently issued a commercial single for the song, which helped propel it to number two, and in turn solidified the album as a hit; re-releasing Fear of Flying on November 7, 2000 with two previous unreleased tracks. The album earned a platinum certification by Recording Industry Association of America on March 28, 2001 and two gold certification by Australian Recording Industry Association and Canadian Recording Industry Association.
Mya  Liberation (Mýa album)  Liberation is the fourth studio album by American singer Mýa, released by Universal Motown on 22 October 2007 in Japan as a digital download only. The album marks the singer's only release on the Motown label, which she left the year after. The album involves production by Scott Storch and J. R. Rotem, with additional production from Bryan Michael Cox, Kwame and Tricky Stewart, among others, and features guest appearances by rappers Snoop Dogg, Lil Wayne, and Charli Baltimore. Liberation spawned two singles, including the Scott Storch-produced Lock U Down and R&amp;B-ballad Ridin'.  Both singles failed to make an impact at radio and on the charts, and thus, after numerous delays in the United States, the album was shelved as a domestic release.
Mýa  Liberation (Mýa album)  Liberation is the fourth studio album by American singer Mýa, released by Universal Motown on 22 October 2007 in Japan as a digital download only. The album marks the singer's only release on the Motown label, which she left the year after. The album involves production by Scott Storch and J. R. Rotem, with additional production from Bryan Michael Cox, Kwame and Tricky Stewart, among others, and features guest appearances by rappers Snoop Dogg, Lil Wayne, and Charli Baltimore. Liberation spawned two singles, including the Scott Storch-produced Lock U Down and R&amp;B-ballad Ridin'.  Both singles failed to make an impact at radio and on the charts, and thus, after numerous delays in the United States, the album was shelved as a domestic release.
Mya  Mýa (album)  Mýa is the self titled debut studio album by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released April 21, 1998 on Interscope Records. Recording sessions for the album took place from 1997 to 1998 at Silent Sound Studios in Atlanta, Georgia and at The Record Plant in Los Angeles, California. Production was primarily handled by Darryl Day Pearson with additional production from Daryl Simmons and Nokio the N-Tity and features collaboration with Sisqó, Missy Elliot, and Silkk The Shocker. The album tell tales about relationship - being young, throwing parties, getting hurt for the first time when you're my age; or the second time or third time as you grow up. It is about taking control, saying good-bye and moving on when you're done. It's about not being afraid. With love and relationships-related themes and lyrics, Mýa features a fusion of R&amp;B with incorporated musical elements of soul and hip hop music. Mýa spawned three singles including; the Top 5 Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Songs hits It's All About Me featuring Sisqo and Movin' On featuring No Limit Records rapper Silkk The Shocker, and the Diane Warren-penned ballad My First Night with You. Mýa debuted at number seventy-seven on Billboard 200 chart on May 9, 1998 and later peaked at number twenty-nine on September 5, 1998. With help of its three singles, it spent 53 non-consecutive weeks on the Billboard 200 chart and earned a platinum certification from Recording Industry Association of America within the next six months on October 1, 1998. Her eponymous debut album received critical acclaim from music critics and garnered several accolades, including two Soul Train Music Award nominations.
Mýa  Mýa (album)  Mýa is the self titled debut studio album by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released April 21, 1998 on Interscope Records. Recording sessions for the album took place from 1997 to 1998 at Silent Sound Studios in Atlanta, Georgia and at The Record Plant in Los Angeles, California. Production was primarily handled by Darryl Day Pearson with additional production from Daryl Simmons and Nokio the N-Tity and features collaboration with Sisqó, Missy Elliot, and Silkk The Shocker. The album tell tales about relationship - being young, throwing parties, getting hurt for the first time when you're my age; or the second time or third time as you grow up. It is about taking control, saying good-bye and moving on when you're done. It's about not being afraid. With love and relationships-related themes and lyrics, Mýa features a fusion of R&amp;B with incorporated musical elements of soul and hip hop music. Mýa spawned three singles including; the Top 5 Hot R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Songs hits It's All About Me featuring Sisqo and Movin' On featuring No Limit Records rapper Silkk The Shocker, and the Diane Warren-penned ballad My First Night with You. Mýa debuted at number seventy-seven on Billboard 200 chart on May 9, 1998 and later peaked at number twenty-nine on September 5, 1998. With help of its three singles, it spent 53 non-consecutive weeks on the Billboard 200 chart and earned a platinum certification from Recording Industry Association of America within the next six months on October 1, 1998. Her eponymous debut album received critical acclaim from music critics and garnered several accolades, including two Soul Train Music Award nominations.
Mya  Sugar & Spice (Mýa album)  Sugar &amp; Spice is the fifth studio album by American singer Mýa, released in Japan on December 3, 2008. The album marks Myá's debut on Japanese R&amp;B label Manhattan Records (not to be confused with the American label of the same name), following her split with Motown Records in 2008. Recorded between the years of 2007 and 2008, the album was entirely written by Christopher Moore and Mýa herself, involving production by a wide range of low-profile producers such Arkatech Beatz, Riddim Fingaz, The Smith Bros, and Duke Williams among others. In addition, she worked with rappers Tre and Faith Boogie on the album, while dancehall musician Sean Paul lent his vocals to a remix of the album's lead single Paradise, released in October 2008. Mýa described the album as a compilation with all positive energy and song content.
Mýa  Sugar & Spice (Mýa album)  Sugar &amp; Spice is the fifth studio album by American singer Mýa, released in Japan on December 3, 2008. The album marks Myá's debut on Japanese R&amp;B label Manhattan Records (not to be confused with the American label of the same name), following her split with Motown Records in 2008. Recorded between the years of 2007 and 2008, the album was entirely written by Christopher Moore and Mýa herself, involving production by a wide range of low-profile producers such Arkatech Beatz, Riddim Fingaz, The Smith Bros, and Duke Williams among others. In addition, she worked with rappers Tre and Faith Boogie on the album, while dancehall musician Sean Paul lent his vocals to a remix of the album's lead single Paradise, released in October 2008. Mýa described the album as a compilation with all positive energy and song content.
Mya  Mya and Friends Presents... Best of Both Worlds  Mýa and Friends Presents... Best of Both Worlds is an unofficial compilation album by American R&amp;B singer Mýa, released by Siccness Records on April 7, 2009 in the United States. The album contains four unreleased tracks by Mýa and features guest appearances by Bobby Valentino, Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, Gucci Mane, Young Jeezy, Ginuwine, Twista, Ludacris, Pastor Troy, Keith Murray, G-Dep, Loon, and Mobb Deep.
Mýa  Mya and Friends Presents... Best of Both Worlds  Mýa and Friends Presents... Best of Both Worlds is an unofficial compilation album by American R&amp;B singer Mýa, released by Siccness Records on April 7, 2009 in the United States. The album contains four unreleased tracks by Mýa and features guest appearances by Bobby Valentino, Bone Thugs-n-Harmony, Gucci Mane, Young Jeezy, Ginuwine, Twista, Ludacris, Pastor Troy, Keith Murray, G-Dep, Loon, and Mobb Deep.
Mya  Beauty & the Streets Vol. 1  Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol. 1 is the first of two mixtape by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released September 29, 2009 on her own independent label Planet 9 and J. Prince's Young Empire Music Group. Mýa worked with a wide range of producers and collaborated with artists Slim Thug, Shawty Lo, Bun B, Z-Ro, Nicki Minaj, Chamillionaire, and Trae. The mixtape was created to serve the clubs, strip clubs, whips, and the bedroom with a predominantly southern sound. Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol. 1 spawned two singles including, the Bun B-assisted Show Me Somethin' and the promotional T-Minus-produced single Black Out. Both singles were released to Itunes on August 31, 2009. Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol.1 debut at number fifty-five on the Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart in October 2009.
Mýa  Beauty & the Streets Vol. 1  Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol. 1 is the first of two mixtape by American singer-songwriter Mýa, released September 29, 2009 on her own independent label Planet 9 and J. Prince's Young Empire Music Group. Mýa worked with a wide range of producers and collaborated with artists Slim Thug, Shawty Lo, Bun B, Z-Ro, Nicki Minaj, Chamillionaire, and Trae. The mixtape was created to serve the clubs, strip clubs, whips, and the bedroom with a predominantly southern sound. Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol. 1 spawned two singles including, the Bun B-assisted Show Me Somethin' and the promotional T-Minus-produced single Black Out. Both singles were released to Itunes on August 31, 2009. Beauty &amp; the Streets Vol.1 debut at number fifty-five on the Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart in October 2009.
Madonna  GHV2  GHV2 (an abbreviation of Greatest Hits Volume 2) is the second greatest hits compilation album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on November 12, 2001, by Maverick Records. It is the follow-up to the 1990 release, The Immaculate Collection. It does not contain any new recordings and was released to coincide with the live video release, Drowned World Tour 2001. The RIAA certified it Gold and Platinum on Dec 12, 2001, denoting one million shipments in the United States. Worldwide, the album has sold more than seven million units. It was the 12th best selling album of 2001. A promotional only remix album, GHV2 Remixed: The Best of 1991—2001, was released to accompany it.
Madonna  Like a Virgin  Like a Virgin is the second studio album by American recording artist Madonna, released on November 12, 1984 by Sire Records. It was re-released worldwide in 1985, with the bonus track Into the Groove. In 2001, Warner Bros. released a remastered version with two bonus remix tracks. After the release and the success of her self-titled debut album, Madonna wanted to solidify her future in the music business, by building on the success of the first album. However, she decided to become one of the record producers, feeling the need to control the various aspects of her music. Nile Rodgers was chosen as the primary producer of the album, due to his work with David Bowie. The album was recorded at Power Station Studio in New York at a quick pace. Rodgers assisted the help of his former Chic band mates Bernard Edwards, who was the bassist, and Tony Thompson, who played drums; they appeared on several tracks of the album. Rodgers decided to be the guitarist, when Edwards requested him to do so, in exchange of their help. Jason Corsaro, the record's audio engineer, persuaded Rodgers to use digital recording, a new technique at the time which Corsaro believed was going to be the future of recording because test pressings always sounded consistent. Madonna was always present during the recordings, and believed that the songs on the album were stronger, compared to her debut album. The cover sleeve and images were shot by Steven Meisel. Madonna wanted the album title and the cover image to make provocative link between her own religious name Madonna, as the Roman Catholic title for Jesus' mother Mary, and the Christian concept of the virgin birth. Like a Virgin is not that much of a musical departure from the first album, but the material is stronger. Along with Rodgers, Madonna also collaborated with her former boyfriend Steve Bray, who co-produced majority of the songs on the album. Consisting of dance-pop oriented music, the songs also incorporated synthpop and New Wave music. After its release, Like a Virgin received mixed reviews from the critics, but was a commercial success. It became Madonna's first number one album on the Billboard 200, while reaching the top of the album charts in Germany, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain and the United Kingdom. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified it diamond, for shipment of ten million copies across the United States. Worldwide it has sold 21 million copies, becoming one of the best-selling albums of all time. Five singles were released from the album, with the title track and Material Girl becoming worldwide hits and Into the Groove becoming her first number-one single in the United Kingdom. To promote Like a Virgin, Madonna embarked on her first concert tour—The Virgin Tour—which travelled in cities of North America only. Like a Virgin has attained significance as a cultural artifact of the Eighties. Madonna proved that she was not a one-hit wonder and was able to establish herself as a musical force to be reckoned with. Her songs became a lightning rod for both criticism by conservatives and imitation by the younger female population, especially Material Girl and Like a Virgin. According to author J. Randy Taraborrelli, Every important artist has at least one album in his or her career whose critical and commercial success becomes the artist's magic moment; for Madonna, Like a Virgin was just such a defining moment.
Madonna  Blond Ambition World Tour  The Blond Ambition World Tour was the third concert tour by American singer-songwriter, Madonna. The tour supported her fourth studio album, Like a Prayer, and the soundtrack, I'm Breathless. The tour reached North America, Europe and Asia. It was a highly controversial tour, mainly for its juxtaposition of Catholic iconography and sexuality. Rolling Stone called it an elaborately choreographed, sexually provocative extravaganza and proclaimed it the best tour of 1990.  In 1991, a documentary film, Truth or Dare (aka In Bed with Madonna), was released chronicling the tour. The tour received the Most Creative Stage Production at the Pollstar Concert Industry Awards.
Madonna  Who's That Girl (soundtrack)  Who's That Girl is a soundtrack album by American recording artist Madonna, from the film of same name. Released on July 21, 1987, by Sire Records, the soundtrack contains four songs by Madonna, and others by her label mates Scritti Politti, Duncan Faure, Club Nouveau, Coati Mundi and Michael Davidson. It is considered a Madonna album by Warner Bros. Records since the majority of the songs are sung by her. After the commercial success of her film Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Madonna wanted to work in another comedy film titled Slammer. However, due to the critical and commercial failure of her drama film Shanghai Surprise (1986), Warner Bros. were initially reluctant to green light the project, but later agreed. The film was about a woman named Nikki Finn who was falsely accused of homicide. Madonna began working on the soundtrack in December 1986, and contacted Patrick Leonard and Stephen Bray, both producers of her third studio album True Blue (1986). She needed an uptempo song and a downtempo song. The uptempo song, composed by Leonard, ended up being the title track for the film; Madonna decided to change the film's name to Who's That Girl based on the title track's name. Together, Madonna and Leonard also developed the downtempo ballad The Look of Love. Two more songs were composed for the film with Bray, the first being the dance-y tune Causing a Commotion, and the other being Can't Stop, a track inspired by Sixties Motown and the group Martha and the Vandellas. After its release, Who's That Girl soundtrack received mostly negative reviews from critics, who noted the soundtrack as plain and incomplete, although citing the title track and The Look of Love as its highlights. The soundtrack was a commercial success, reaching the top ten of the album charts of the United States, Austria, Canada, France, Italy, New Zealand, Sweden and the United Kingdom, while topping the charts of Germany, and Billboard&#39;s European Album chart. Worldwide, the album went on to sell six million copies. Three of the Madonna tracks were released as singles. The title track became her sixth number one single on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist to accumulate six number-one singles in the 1980s, and the first female performer to get that many number-ones as a solo act. Causing a Commotion was the second single, and it reached number two on the Hot 100, and the top ten of the charts of other nations. The Look of Love was a European market-only release, reaching the top ten in United Kingdom. Another track, Turn It Up was a promotional release in United States, reaching the number 15 on the dance charts. Who's That Girl received further promotion from the Who's That Girl World Tour, which became a successful tour for Madonna.
Madonna  Like a Prayer  Like a Prayer is the fourth studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on March 21, 1989 by Sire Records. The RIAA certified it Quadruple Platinum on July 16, 1997, recognizing four million shipments in the United States, making it her seventh best-selling album there. It has sold more than 14 million copies worldwide. The album was also ranked number 237 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The album also found success with its following singles; Express Yourself, Cherish, and Oh Father, which found varied success across the globe. Express Yourself and Like a Prayer are regarded as two of Madonna's signature songs, and along with Oh Father and Cherish, have garnered much acclaim over the decades and also furthered the creativity within music videos (Express Yourself was the most expensive video ever made at that point). Madonna's lyrics in the album reflect her then very public divorce from Sean Penn (Till Death Do Us Part) as well as revisiting the emotions dealt with in her family life from when she was a child through to when she was a teenager (Promise to Try, Oh Father, Keep It Together). Love Song (a duet with Prince) and Keep It Together would be revisited in Madonna's tenth studio album Confessions on a Dance Floor in the hit songs Jump and Hung Up.
Madonna  I'm Breathless  I'm Breathless: Music from and Inspired by the film Dick Tracy is the second soundtrack album by American recording artist-songwriter, composer Madonna, released on May 22, 1990, by Sire Records. It was recorded to promote and accompany the motion picture, released in the summer of 1990. The RIAA certified it Gold, Platinum &amp; 2x Platinum on Jul 30, 1990, denoting two million shipments in the United States &amp; worldwide has sold more than 7 million copies.
Madonna  True Blue (album)  True Blue is the third studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on June 30, 1986, by Sire Records. Madonna worked with Stephen Bray and Patrick Leonard on the album while co-writing all the songs. Deemed as Madonna's most girlish album, True Blue deals with her visions of love, work, dreams as well as disappointments, and was inspired by her then husband Sean Penn, to whom Madonna dedicated the album. Musically, the songs on the album took a different direction from her previous endeavours, incorporating classical music in order to engage an older audience who had been skeptical of her music. True Blue features instrumentation from acoustic guitars, drums, synthesizers and Cuban musical instruments. The topic for the songs range from love, freedom, and in the case of Papa Don't Preach, social issues like teenage pregnancy. After its release, True Blue received generally positive reviews from critics. They complimented the album, with one calling it a great dance-pop and described it as the archetype of the late '80s and early '90s pop albums. They also praised the fact that Madonna's voice sounded stronger than it did on her previous efforts, while commending Madonna's skills as a singer, songwriter and entertainer. Commercially, True Blue became an international success, reaching the top of the charts in 28 countries, an unprecedented achievement at that time. It also became the world's top-selling album of 1986. Worldwide sales of the album stand at 24 million copies, seven million of those being sold in United States, which earned it a seven times platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America. Five singles were released from the album: Live to Tell, Papa Don't Preach, Open Your Heart, which went on to top the Billboard Hot 100 chart as well as True Blue and La Isla Bonita, which reached the top-five. With the singles and their accompanying music videos Madonna began to change her image from that of a boy-toy to a more sophisticated matured look. For Papa Don't Preach, some social groups condemned Madonna for encouraging teenage pregnancy while others complimented her for her seemingly pro-life stance. Open Your Heart faced criticism for its music video and its portrayal of a minor entering a strip club. During the 2006 Confessions Tour the live performance of Live to Tell, which featured Madonna performing the song while hanging from a cross and wearing a crown of thorns, generated media uproar with religious groups condemning it as blasphemy. True Blue is credited as being the album which made Madonna into a superstar. It ensured Madonna's place among the musical artists of the '80s.
Madonna  Madonna (album)  Madonna is the debut album of American recording artist Madonna, released on July 27, 1983 by Sire Records. The album was re-released in 1985 for the European market and re-packaged as Madonna – The First Album. In 1982, during establishing herself as a singer in New York downtown, Madonna met Seymour Stein, president of Sire Records, who signed her after listening to her single Everybody. The success of the single prompted Sire to sign her for an album's deal. For the album, Madonna chose to work with Reggie Lucas, a Warner Bros. producer. However, she was not happy with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas's production techniques, so decided to seek additional help with the production. Madonna then invited her boyfriend at the time, John Jellybean Benitez, to help her finish the album. Benitez remixed many of the tracks and produced Holiday. The overall sound of Madonna is dissonant, and is in the form of upbeat synthetic disco, utilising some of the new technology of the time, like the usage of Linn drum machine, Moog bass and the
Madonna  You Can Dance  You Can Dance is the first remix album by American recording artist Madonna, released on November 30, 1987, by Sire Records. The album contains remixes of tracks from her first three studio albums—Madonna (1983), Like a Virgin (1984) and True Blue (1986)— and a new track, Spotlight. In the 1980s, remixing was still a new concept and technology, by which a particular vocal phrase could be endlessly copied, repeated, chopped up, transposed up and down in pitch and give them more echo, reverberation, treble or bass. Madonna became interested in the concept, noting that she hated when others remixed her song and wanted to do it by herself. Madonna turned to her old friend and producer John Jellybean Benitez to help her remixing the songs, and also enlisted the help of Patrick Leonard, the producer of True Blue. The mixes on You Can Dance exhibited a number of typical mixing techniques. Instrumental passages were lengthened to increase the time for dancing, which undermined the tighter structure of the original pop song. Vocal phrases were repeated and subjected to multiple echoes, panned across the stereophonic sound outlets. At certain points, almost no music is heard except the drums and at other times, the drums are removed with only the high-hat left to keep time. The album cover denoted Madonna's continuous fascination with Hispanic culture. After its release, You Can Dance received mostly positive reviews from critics, who noted how the already known songs appeared to them in a complete new structure, calling it an essential album to be played at parties. You Can Dance was a commercial success, earning a platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of a million copies, and reaching the top twenty of the Billboard 200. It reached the top ten of the album charts of France, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom, and went on to sell five million copies worldwide, making it the second best selling remix album of all time. Spotlight was the only single released from the album in Japan, but charted on the airplay charts of Billboard due to radio play.
Madonna  Erotica (album)  Erotica is the fifth studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on October 20, 1992 by Maverick Records. The album was released simultaneously with Madonna's first book publication, Sex. The RIAA certified it double platinum on January 6, 1993, recognizing two million shipments throughout the U.S. Worldwide sales are currently recorded at over 5 million. The album has been certified Double Platinum in the UK with sales exceeding 600,000. Erotica's fifth single, Rain, got recognition at the MTV Video Music Awards in 1993, and the album spawned her critically successful Girlie Show World Tour. Erotica was Madonna's first album to have the Parental Advisory sticker.
Madonna  Ray of Light  Ray of Light is the seventh studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on March 3, 1998 by Maverick Records. After giving birth to her daughter Lourdes, Madonna collaborated with Patrick Leonard and William Orbit in developing the album. After failed sessions with other producers, Madonna pursued a new musical direction with Orbit and incorporated his extensive usage of trance and electronic music in her songs. The recording took place over four months, but experienced problems with the Pro Tools arrangement by Orbit as well as the absence of live bands. However, upon release, the album was lauded by contemporary critics as a music masterpiece of the decade. Reviewers complimented the album for its mature, restrained nature as well as commending Madonna's musical direction, calling it her most adventurous record. Commercially, the album was a success on the world charts, peaking at number one in numerous countries such as the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and mainland Europe. On the US Billboard 200, the album debuted and peaked at number two. In 1999, Ray of Light won four Grammy Award from a total of six nominations. Rolling Stone magazine listed the album as one of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. With the global sales of 20 million copies, Ray of Light became one of the most commercially successful albums of the 1990s. Five singles were released from the album. The first single Frozen was an international success, as was the second one, Ray of Light, which won a number of awards for its music video. Madonna has performed songs from the album on all of her world tours since its release.
Madonna  Music (Madonna album)  Music is the eighth studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on September 19, 2000 by Maverick Records. A two-disc Special Edition was also released in June 2001 to promote the Drowned World Tour, containing an additional CD of remixes and the video of What It Feels Like for a Girl. Madonna collaborated with French producer Mirwais Ahmadzaï for this album. It featured mostly upbeat and up-tempo songs which further developed Madonna's move toward European dance music. The album received positive response from most music critics, scoring 80/100 from Metacritic. It was nominated for a total of five Grammy Awards although it eventually won only one award for Best Recording Package. The album is also listed by Rolling Stone magazine as one of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. Commercially, Music debuted at number one in over 23 countries around the world and sold more than four million copies in the first ten days. To date, the album has sold 15 million copies worldwide. Music featured three singles and one promotional single. The title track reached the top of the charts in 25 countries and became Madonna's 12th number-one on the Billboard Hot 100.
Madonna  American Life  American Life is the ninth studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna. It was released on April 22, 2003 by Warner Bros. Records and Maverick Records and produced by Madonna and Mirwais Ahmadzaï. It was the world's 32nd-best-selling album in 2003. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and British Phonographic Industry (BPI) both certified it platinum in recognition of one million shipments, and three hundred thousand copies sold, respectively. It is the second Madonna Album to have a Parental Advisory sticker, after Erotica. In the United States and in the United Kingdom the album debuted at number one. It was nominated for two Grammys at the 46th Grammy Awards. Madonna promoted the album in the American Life Promo Tour and the worldwide Re-Invention World Tour. Also, the second earned US$125 million, becoming the 2004 Billboard Top Tour. Music critics variously described the album as unpatriotic, slack, and serious, with some praising the interesting album for its warmer sounds. The album is considered a concept album, with recurring themes of American Dream and materialism. Furthermore, the themes reject the reputation Madonna held in the 1980s with her worldwide hit Material Girl.
Madonna  The Immaculate Collection  The Immaculate Collection is the first greatest hits album by American recording artist-songwriter Madonna, released on November 9, 1990 by Sire Records. It contains newly remixed versions of her greatest hits from 1982 to 1990, as well as two new tracks Justify My Love and Rescue Me. The album includes eight of her twelve U.S. number one singles and five of thirteen U.K. number ones. The RIAA certified it Diamond on October 11, 2001, recognizing ten million shipments throughout the United States, making it her best-selling album there, while selling 5,777,000 according to Nielsen SoundScan (post march 1, 1991). In the UK, the BPI certified it 12x Platinum, for shipments of over 3.6 million copies. The album is the best-selling compilation album released by a solo artist and one of the best selling albums of all time, with 30 million copies sold worldwide. The title of the album is a loose pun of the Immaculate Conception, the conception of the Virgin Mary without any stain of the original sin. This name follows Madonna's religious-themed songs and videos, as well as the second section of her Blond Ambition Tour, ambiented in the same way. In 1991, The Holiday Collection EP was released in Europe to accompany the compilation and the re-release of the single Holiday. It contained tracks omitted from this album: True Blue, Who's That Girl and Causing a Commotion. The album was ranked number 278 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. After the release of Madonna's 2009 career-spanning double-disc compilation Celebration, which includes all of the songs featured on The Immaculate Collection except for Rescue Me, the latter has been put on hold for retail order.
Madonna  Confessions on a Dance Floor  Confessions on a Dance Floor is the tenth studio album by American recording artist Madonna. It was released on November 15, 2005 by Warner Bros. Records. The album was a complete departure from her last studio album, American Life (2003). It included influences of 70s and 80s disco as well as modern-day club music. Initially, she began collaborating with Mirwais Ahmadzaï and even recorded two tracks for the album. However, Madonna felt that their collaboration was not going in the direction she desired. At that time, Madonna arranged to write and record additional tracks with Stuart Price while overseeing her documentary, I'm Going to Tell You a Secret. The album was mainly recorded at Price's home-studio where Madonna spent most of her time during the recordings. Musically the album is structured like a DJ's nightly set. The songs are sequenced and blended together so that they are played continuously without any intermediate gap. The title arrived from the fact that the tracklisting for the album consists of light-hearted and happy songs in the beginning, and progresses to much darker melodies and lyrics describing personal feelings and commitments. Songs on the album use samples and references of music by other dance-oriented artists like ABBA, Donna Summer, Pet Shop Boys, Bee Gees, and Depeche Mode. Madonna incorporated references of her older work as well. One of the tracks called Isaac, was negatively received by some Israeli rabbis who claimed that the song was about their noted sixteenth century Kabbalah scholar Yitzhak Luria. However, Madonna explained that the song was named after Yitzhak Sinwani, who appeared as a featured vocalist for the song. Contemporary critics lauded the album calling it a return to form for Madonna. They complimented the fact that Madonna chose to seek inspiration from the dance music which had made her the noted star she is. Price's musical direction was also praised with some reviewers giving the full credit for the album to him. After its release, the album debuted at the top of the charts in most nations. It became Madonna's sixth number-one album on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Worldwide, Confessions on a Dance Floor has sold 12 million copies. She was also honored with a Grammy Award for Best Dance/Electronic Album in 2007, as well as International Female Solo Artist at the 2006 BRIT Awards. The supporting tour for the album, known as Confessions Tour, became the highest grossing tour ever for a female artist, at that time. Four singles were released from the album. Hung Up, the first single, became Madonna's most successful single worldwide by topping the charts in forty-five countries, thus earning a place in the Guinness Book of World Records. It was followed by Sorry which was another chart topping success. It became Madonna's twelfth number-one single in the United Kingdom. Get Together and Jump were released as the third and fourth singles respectively, both becoming successful on the dance charts.
Madonna  Remixed & Revisited  Remixed &amp; Revisited is an remix album by American recording artist Madonna. It was released on November 24, 2003 by Maverick Records. The album contains four songs, in remixed form, from her 2003 ninth studio album American Life and a previously unreleased song, Your Honesty, from her 1994 sixth studio album Bedtime Stories. The other tracks included are the live performance of Hollywood on the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards—which ended with Madonna kissing co-performers Britney Spears and Christina Aguilera—and a remix of 1985 single Into the Groove. The release peaked at number 115 on the Billboard 200 in the United States. It received mixed reviews from critics; Your Honesty was generally the only song to receive praise.
Madonna  Evita (soundtrack)  Evita is the third soundtrack album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on November 12, 1996 by Warner Bros. Records. It also includes performances by Antonio Banderas, Jonathan Pryce and Jimmy Nail. It was released to promote and accompany the 1996 motion picture, Evita. The RIAA certified it Gold &amp; Platinum on January 24, 1997 &amp; 5x Multi Platinum on March 29, 1999, recognizing 2.5 million shipments throughout the United States (as it is a double album and exceeds 100 minutes in length, the RIAA counts each unit sale twice).
Madonna  Something to Remember  Something to Remember is a compilation album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on November 7, 1995 by Maverick Records. It contains a collection of her greatest ballad hits with three new songs: I Want You, You'll See, and One More Chance. It also contains a new remix of the 1984 Like a Virgin album track Love Don't Live Here Anymore. The RIAA certified it Triple Platinum on October 3, 2000, recognizing three million shipments in America. Madonna is known for being a trend-setter. As the remix album You Can Dance in 1987 was the beginning of a string of other artits releasing remix albums, Something To Remember marked a similar trend with ballad albums, most noteably 1996's Love Songs album by Elton John and If We Fall in Love Tonight by Rod Stewart.
Madonna  Pre-Madonna  Pre-Madonna (known as In the Beginning in Europe) was an album released by Stephen Bray in 1997, without American singer-songwriter Madonna's authorization. The title is a pun on the phrase prima donna.
Madonna  The Holiday Collection (EP)  The Holiday Collection is an EP by American singer-songwriter Madonna. It was released as an accompanying title to the greatest hits package The Immaculate Collection only in the United Kingdom in 1991 by Sire Records.
Madonna  The Madonna Collection  The Madonna Collection is a 3-VHS music video box set by singer Madonna. Released by Warner Music Vision in June 2000, it contained the following titles: Live - The Virgin Tour, The Immaculate Collection and The Girlie Show - Live Down Under.
Madonna  The Video Collection 93:99  The Video Collection 93:99 is the second music video compilation by American recording artist Madonna. Released by Warner Music Vision on November 2, 1999, it contained the music video of Madonna's singles released between 1993 to 1999. Originally, the collection was titled The Video Collection 92–99, and had included the 1992 hit Erotica, but was omitted due to the explicit sexual content in the video; instead the 1998 song The Power of Good-Bye was added. The videos in the collection were selected personally by Madonna, who felt the 14 videos to be her best work. After its release, the collection was critically appreciated, with one group of reviewers noting the artistic capabilities of Madonna while the others noting her ability to re-invent her image from one video to another. The Video Collection 93:99 reached a peak of eight on Billboard&#39;s Top Music Video sales chart. A box set titled The Ultimate Collection was released in 2000, which contained The Video Collection 93:99 and The Immaculate Collection videos. In 2008, The Video Collection 93:99 was certified platinum in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of 50,000 copies across United States.
Madonna  Live – The Virgin Tour  Live – The Virgin Tour is the first live music video title by American recording artist Madonna. Released through Warner Music Video on November 13, 1985, it contains the concert footage from The Virgin Tour, filmed at Cobo Arena in Detroit, Michigan on May 25, 1985. Director Danny Kleinman, who presided over the shooting of the tour on video, submitted the footage to Warner Bros. Records, who decided to release it as a video album. Madonna wanted to have a proper introduction added before the concert footage and asked director James Foley to shoot one, which portrayed her with her first image makeover, reciting lines related to how she became famous. After its release, Live – The Virgin Tour received mixed reviews from critics, but went on to become a commercial success, topping the Music Video Sales chart of Billboard and becoming the top selling music video cassette of 1986. The video was certified two-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of 100,000 copies and in September 1986, it received a Video Software Dealers Award for the Most Popular Music Video. The live performances of Like a Virgin and Dress You Up were released as music videos on MTV to promote the video album. Both videos were nominated for Best Choreography at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards.
Madonna  Remixed Prayers  Remixed Prayers is a remix extended play by pop singer Madonna, released in August 1989 by Warner Music Japan. It was released to coincide with the Like a Prayer album. It was released in Japan only, until July 1993 where it was released in Australia to celebrate Madonna's first concerts in the country on The Girlie Show Tour.
Madonna  Sooner or Later (Madonna song)  Sooner or Later is a song recorded by American pop singer Madonna and written by American composer Stephen Sondheim for the 1990 film Dick Tracy. Released that same year on Madonna's album I'm Breathless, the song won Sondheim an Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1991. The song's title as listed in the film credits, and in the official Academy Award records, includes the subtitle (I Always Get My Man); however, this subtitle is not shown on I'm Breathless. In addition to performing the song live at the 1991 Academy Awards, Madonna also performed this song in a lounge setting on her 1990 Blond Ambition Tour. Her performance at the Academy Awards was named by Billboard as the 7th most awesome Oscar performance.
Madonna  The Girlie Show – Live Down Under  The Girlie Show – Live Down Under is a live music video title by singer Madonna. It was released by Warner Music Vision on April 25, 1994 and included one of the Girlie Show dates filmed at Sydney Cricket Ground on November 19, 1993.
Madonna  The Confessions Tour (album)  The Confessions Tour is the second live album by American recording artist Madonna. It was released on January 26, 2007 by Warner Bros. Records. Directed by Jonas Åkerlund, the album chronicles Madonna's 2006 Confessions Tour. It was recorded at Wembley Arena during the London dates of the tour, and was released in both CD and DVD format. The DVD contains the whole tour and the CD includes thirteen highlights. The album became the first release from Semtex Films, a production company founded by Madonna in 2006. The Confessions Tour received mixed reviews from contemporary critics. Some preferred the DVD versions to the CD, while others complimented the finale of the tour. After its release, the album reached the top of the official charts in a number of European nations while reaching the top ten in Canada, Japan and the United Kingdom. It reached a peak of fifteen on the Billboard 200 albums chart in United States. At the 50th Grammy Awards held on February 10, 2008 at Staples Center in Los Angeles, California, the album won the Grammy Award for Best Long Form Music Video.
Madonna  Hard Candy (Madonna album)  Hard Candy is the eleventh studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on April 25, 2008, by Warner Bros. Records. It was her final studio album with the record company, marking the end of a 25 year recording history. Madonna started working on the album in 2007, and collaborated with Justin Timberlake, Timbaland, Pharrell Williams and Nate Danja Hills. The album has an overall urban pop vibe, while remaining a dance-pop record at its core. The Pet Shop Boys were also asked to collaborate with Madonna on the album by Warner Bros. but the record company later changed their mind and withdrew their invitation. Madonna became interested in collaborating with Timberlake after hearing his 2006 album FutureSex/LoveSounds. Together they developed a number of songs for the album, but the basis of the development was Williams' demos. Madonna had a number of songs written down for the album, which amazed Timberlake. They had intensive discussions among themselves before recording a song. Later, Madonna recalled that most of the songs on Hard Candy were autobiographical in many respects. However, according to her this was not intentional and happened while she was in the process of developing the album. Madonna had initially decided to portray herself as the Black Madonna for the cover art, and call it the same, but later felt the idea may have been seen as controversial. She instead chose to portray herself as a boxer, and call the album Give It 2 Me, however, Warner Bros. objected to the title as it was the same as a popular song by Timbaland featuring Justin Timberlake and Nelly Furtado. The title Hard Candy refers to the juxtaposition of toughness and sweetness, which Madonna endorsed. Critical reaction to the album was mixed. Some reviewers condemned Hard Candy for its attempt to harness the urban market, while other commended its refreshing feel. On release Hard Candy debuted at number-one in over 37 countries worldwide, including the United States, Australia, France, Germany, Japan, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. It went on to become the eleventh best selling album worldwide of 2008, selling 3.8 million copies. Three singles were released from the album. The first, 4 Minutes, was a worldwide success, topping the charts in 21 countries and becoming Madonna's 37th Billboard Hot 100 top-ten hit. Other singles released were Give It 2 Me and Miles Away. To promote the album, Madonna went on a small promotional tour, where she played in three cities in small venues. The album received the majority of its promotion from the 2008–09 Sticky &amp; Sweet Tour, which went on to become the highest grossing tour ever, by a solo artist.
Madonna  It's That Girl  It's That Girl is a promotional music video compilation by singer Madonna. It was released by WEA Records UK in 1987 to promote the Who's That Girl Tour and was only available to UK record stores and the music industry.
Madonna  The Immaculate Collection (video)  The Immaculate Collection is the first commercially released greatest videos compilation by singer Madonna. Released by Warner Music Vision on November 13, 1990 to accompany the audio CD, it contained hits spanning 1983-1990. The collection won Best Long Form Video category at the 1991 MTV Video Music Awards.
Madonna  Justify My Love (video)  Justify My Love was the first ever VHS video single to be released by American singer Madonna. This was the first time an artist had released a single in this format. It was released by Sire Records and Warner Music Vision, to capitalize on the controversy surrounding the music video which was subsequently banned by MTV. It contained the highly controversial and sexually-charged video. On December 3, 1990, ABC's Nightline played the video in its entirety, then interviewed Madonna live about the video's sexual content and censorship. When asked whether she stood to make more money selling the video than airing it on MTV, she shrugged and answered, Yeah, so? Lucky me.  She also mentioned that the banning was hypocritical as male artists were able to show music videos on the channel which contained sexist and violent imagery. She also mentioned that in her Vogue music video she had worn a see-through lace top which exposed her breasts, but this was passed by the channel. The video contained imagery of Sadomasochism, Voyeurism and Bisexuality. Madonna biographer, Mark Bego commented that Throwing a scandal Madonna's way is like throwing gasoline on a fire.  The controversy turned out to be a publicity and financial coup, with the single spending two consecutive weeks at no. 1 on Billboard's Hot 100 in early 1991.
Madonna  What It Feels Like for a Girl (video)  What It Feels Like for a Girl is a music video single title by singer Madonna. Released by Warner Music Vision on April 17, 2001, it contained the controversial music video, directed by Guy Ritchie, depicting violence and abuse. Like Justify My Love before it, the video was banned on MTV with exception to MTV Europe.
Madonna  Drowned World Tour 2001 (video)  Drowned World Tour 2001 is live music video title by singer Madonna. It was released by Warner Music Vision on November 13, 2001 and was released to accompany the second greatest hits album GHV2. It contained a live date from the Drowned World Tour recorded at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Auburn Hills, Michigan on August 26, 2001. It was originally broadcast live on American network HBO.
Madonna  Ciao, Italia! – Live from Italy  Ciao, Italia! – Live from Italy is a live music video by American recording artist Madonna. Released by Warner Reprise Video on May 24, 1988, it contained a live performance from the 1987 Who's That Girl World Tour, filmed at Stadio Comunale in Turin, Italy on September 4, 1987 and in Florence, Italy on September 6, 1987. The decision to release Ciao Italia was spurred by the fact that a previous Japan-only video release of the tour, named Who's That Girl – Live In Japan, became a commercial success. A re-release of the video took place in 1999, when it was released in DVD format, with a stereo soundtrack containing the songs only. The video received positive reviews from critics, who noted Madonna's showmanship and her skills as a performer. They also complimented the camera work in the video, for enhancing the visual aspects of the tour. Ciao Italia topped the Music Video sales chart of Billboard, and became the second best-selling music video cassette of 1988. It was certified two times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of 100,000 copies.
Madonna  Live! – Blond Ambition World Tour 90  Live! – Blond Ambition World Tour 90 is a music video title by singer Madonna. It was released only on Laserdisc by Pioneer Artists as part of the sponsorship deal of the 1990 Blond Ambition World Tour. It contains the final tour date filmed at Stade de l'Ouest in Nice, France on August 5, 1990 which had previously been shown and produced by American network HBO as part of a television special. Another TV special was shown in Europe containing a date filmed in Barcelona, Spain, produced by Italian channel Rai Uno who had previously produced the Ciao, Italia! - Live from Italy video release. In 1992, the Live! – Blond Ambition World Tour 90 Laserdisc won the Best Music Video, Long Form category at the 34th Grammy Awards. This was the first Grammy award Madonna received in her career. The award was granted to Madonna, David Mallet and Mark Aldo Miceli (video directors) and Anthony Eaton (video producer). The live performances of Like a Virgin and Holiday were released as music video on MTV to promote the video album. In 1991, Like a Virgin was nominated for Best Female Video and Best Choreography at the MTV Video Music Awards. The next year, she achieved three nominations of Holiday for Best Female Video, Best Choreography, Best Dance Video. However, she did not won any of these nominations.
Madonna  Celebration (Madonna album)  Celebration is the third greatest hits album from American singer Madonna, and the closing release under her contract with Warner Bros. Records, her record company since 1982. The release follows her two previous greatest hits albums, The Immaculate Collection (1990) and GHV2 (2001). The compilation was released in many different formats including a one disc edition and a deluxe double disc. A compilation DVD, entitled Celebration: The Video Collection, was released to accompany the audio versions. The album includes three new tracks, the title track, Revolver and the bonus track on some editions It's So Cool. Celebration was appreciated by contemporary critics who noted the vastness of Madonna's back-catalogue. The album debuted at the top of the charts in Belgium, Canada, Ireland, Italy, Mexico and United Kingdom. Madonna became tied with Elvis Presley as the solo artist with the most number-one albums in the United Kingdom, though this tally also includes the soundtrack album Evita which features other artists. In the United States, it debuted in the top ten of the Billboard 200 at seven. In other nations, it debuted within the top-ten. The title track was released as the first single of the album. It became Madonna's fortieth number-one song on Billboard&#39;s dance chart. Revolver was released as the second single from the album, but it failed to achieve commercial success.
Madonna  Bedtime Stories (album)  Bedtime Stories is the sixth studio album by American singer-songwriter Madonna, released on October 25, 1994 by Maverick Records. Madonna collaborated with Dallas Austin, Babyface, Dave Hall and Nellee Hooper, and decided to move into a more R&amp;B direction and a generally more mainstream radio friendly sound. Madonna tried to soften her image after her sexually explicit works during the Erotica period. Bedtime Stories reached the top of the Australian albums chart, where it became her fifth number-one album. In the United States, the album debuted and peaked at number three on the Billboard 200 chart. Four singles were released from the album, with Secret giving her record-breaking 34th consecutive top ten single in the United Kingdom and Take a Bow becoming her longest run chart-topping hit on the Billboard Hot 100. Other singles released were Bedtime Story and Human Nature, both performed moderately on worldwide charts.
Madonna  Celebration: The Video Collection  Celebration: The Video Collection is a greatest videos DVD compilation by singer Madonna. Released by Warner Bros. Records on September 29, 2009, the release accompanied the greatest hits Celebration. The collection follows on from her other greatest videos compilations The Immaculate Collection (1990) and The Video Collection 93:99 (1999). The release of the DVD was announced in July 2009 and contained videos, spanning Madonna's entire career from 1983 to 2009. Contemporary critics gave mixed review of the DVD. Some were disappointed with the low quality and the lack of clarity of the videos, while others praised the collection for being a reminder of Madonna – the visual artist. Celebration: The Video Collection debuted at the top of the Billboard Top Music Videos and the top of the DVD charts in Australia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Spain and Switzerland. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipment of 50,000 copies across United States.
Madonna  Sticky & Sweet Tour (album)  Sticky &amp; Sweet Tour is the third live album by American singer Madonna and is distributed by her former label, Warner Bros. Records on March 26, 2010, being available on DVD, Blu-ray and CD formats. The tour was filmed at the River Plate Stadium in Buenos Aires, Argentina during the 2008 leg of Madonna's Sticky &amp; Sweet Tour. The album contains the performances from the tour, and thirteen songs in CD format, accompanied by photography of Guy Oseary. Before the official release, the show was broadcast on VH1. Madonna commented that she had not been able to focus on the development of the DVD as she was involved with the development of her directorial venture, titled W.E. Upon its release, Sticky &amp; Sweet Tour received mixed reviews from critics, with one group criticizing it for being lifeless, while others praised the album for the performances, with Into the Groove being listed as a highlight of the tour. It became Madonna's nineteenth top-ten album on the Billboard 200, while reached the top of the charts in Greece, Hungary, Mexico and Portugal. The album also reached the top-ten in the charts of Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Japan, Sweden and Switzerland, but had failed to reach the top-ten in Germany and the United Kingdom.
Marc Lavoine  Marc Lavoine (album)  Marc Lavoine is a 2001 album recorded by French singer-songwriter and actor Marc Lavoine. It was released on November 27, 2001, and even if it failed to reach the top ten, it achieved success in France and Belgium (Wallonia), where it remained charted respectively for two and one years.
Marc Lavoine  L'Heure d'été (album)  L'Heure d'été is a 2005 album recorded by French artist Marc Lavoine. It was his ninth studio album and his 12th album overall. Released on May 23, 2005, it was successful in the francophone countries.
Marc Lavoine  85–95  85-95 is a 1995 compilation recorded by French artist Marc Lavoine. It was the singer's first best of and his seventh album overall. It was released in October 1995 and achieved success in France and Belgium (Wallonia), where it reached the top four. This compilation contains all the singer's singles from the beginning of hi career, plus two unreleased songs : Reste sur moi, a song previously written for Patricia Kaas on her 1993 album Je te dis vous, and Nu.
Marc Lavoine  Les Duos de Marc  Les Duos de Marc is a 2007 compilation recorded by French artist Marc Lavoine. This album is a best of containing all the singer's duets recorded throughout his career, since 1985. Released on October 22, 2007, at the same of Lavoine's other best of Les Solos de Marc, the album was very successful in France, where it topped the chart for two weeks, and in Belgium (Wallonia), where it reached the top two.
Marc Lavoine  Paris (Marc Lavoine album)  Paris is a 1991 album recorded by French artist Marc Lavoine. It was his fourth studio album and his fifth album overall. It provided three singles which achieved moderate success on the French Singles Chart : Paris (#28), L'Amour de 30 secondes (#32) and Ça m'est égal (#41). The album earned a Gold certification awarded by the SNEP and was ranked on the chart for eight weeks, peaking at #35 in its third and fifth weeks.
Marc Lavoine  Les Amours du dimanche  Les Amours du dimanche is a 1989 album recorded by French artist Marc Lavoine. It was his third studio album and contains the singles C'est la vie (#14), Ami, Chère amie (they failed to chart) Rue Fontaine (#11) and Je n'ai plus rien à te donner (#18) which obtained popularity in France. The album earned a Gold certification awarded by the SNEP and was ranked on the chart for 26 weeks in 1989 and 1991, peaking at #35 in its first and second weeks.
Marc Lavoine  Olympia Deuxmilletrois  Olympia Deuxmilletrois is a 2003 album by French singer Marc Lavoine. This live album, recorded on January 24 and 25, 2003, at the Olympia (Paris) during the singer's concerts series, was his eleventh album overall and was released on May 27, 2003. The album reached the top 15 in France and Belgium (Wallonia). Dis-moi que l'amour...  was the sole single from the album, and became a hit in France (#10).
Mariah Carey  Mariah Carey (album)  Mariah Carey is the self-titled debut album by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on June 12, 1990, by Columbia Records. Although sales of the album were initially slow, it made Carey very popular on American radio and in time became a worldwide success. The album was successful in most music markets, spending eleven non-consecutive weeks atop the Billboard 200 and reached the top ten in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and United Kingdom. Five singles were released from the album, four of which became number one hits on the Hot 100, with most reaching the top-ten in various worldwide markets. The first single Vision of Love was critically lauded and is credited by contemporary music critics as bringing the use of Melisma to the 1990s. Carey became the first artist to have their first five singles top the Hot 100, of them four belonged to Mariah Carey. Mariah Carey received generally positive reviews from music critics, and it became the best-selling album of 1991 in the United States. In Australia, the album finished sixth on the ARIA Charts end of 1991 top fifty albums. The album has sold 4,854,000 copies in the United States according to Nielsen SoundScan, which began couting sales post March 1, 1991. Mariah Carey was certified nine-times platinum, by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on December 15, 1999, denoting shipments of nine million copies across the United States. Despite its success in the United States, the album experienced moderate success in most European markets, a trend her albums would follow until her 1993 release, Music Box. In Canada, the album became an commercial success, where it was certified seven-times platinum by the Canadian Recording Industry Association (CRIA). Worldwide, the album has sold over fifteen million copies.
Mariah Carey  The Emancipation of Mimi  The Emancipation of Mimi is the tenth studio album by American singer Mariah Carey. It was released by Island Records on April 4, 2005. The album focuses on several R&amp;B-related genres, ranging from 1970s retro soul to quiet storm, gospel, and others. It received generally positive reviews and won a Grammy Award in 2006 for Best Contemporary R&amp;B Album. After debuting at number 1 with Carey's highest first-week sales during that time, it became the best selling album of 2005 in the United States and the best-selling album worldwide by a solo artist. The Emancipation of Mimi has sold 5,912,000 copies and has been certified 6x platinum by the RIAA, and it is Carey's best-selling album in the U.S. since Daydream (1995). In August 2006, Def Jam reported that the album had sold over 10 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  Butterfly (Mariah Carey album)  Butterfly, the sixth studio album by American R&amp;B singer-songwriter Mariah Carey, was released on September 16, 1997, by Columbia Records. It contained both hip-hop and R&amp;B sounds, as well as some softer and more contemporary melodies. Throughout the project, Carey worked with Walter Afanasieff, with whom she wrote and produced most of the material from her previous albums. She also worked with many famed hip-hop producers and rappers, such as Sean Puffy Combs, Kamaal Fareed, Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters. With the latter acts producing most of the album, Butterfly deviated from the formula of Carey's older work, and was hailed as a defining album of the 1990s and hip-hop and R&amp;B music. Upon release, the album received positive reviews from music critics, who embraced Carey's musical transition. Reviewers complimented the album for its mature sound and production and commended Carey's musical direction, calling it a transitional album, one that makes her a rarity of the 90s.  Butterfly was a life-altering album for Carey, continuing the transformation that began with her previous release, Daydream. The album pushed her music into a hip-hop and R&amp;B sound, leading her away from her contemporary-pop background. Though released during Carey's conflict with Sony Music, the album became a commercial success, topping the charts in Australia, Japan and the Netherlands. On the US Billboard 200, it debuted at number one, spending one week atop the chart. Butterfly was nominated for three Grammy Awards, but did not win any of the nominations. The album was certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), as well as receiving the Million Award in Japan. Five singles were released from the album. Honey, the album's lead single, topped the charts in the US and Canada, and reached the top-five in New Zealand, Spain and the United Kingdom. The album's fourth single, My All, became a top-ten hit throughout Europe. When this single became her thirteenth number-one single in the US, Carey surpassed Madonna as the female with the most number-ones on the Hot 100. To support the album, Carey embarked on the Butterfly World Tour, which visited Australia, Japan and Taiwan, with one show in the United States. According to the booklet from Carey's twelfth studio album, Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel, she considered Butterfly her magnum opus and a serious turning point in both her life and career.
Mariah Carey  Daydream (Mariah Carey album)  Daydream is the fifth studio album by American singer-songwriter Mariah Carey, released on October 3, 1995 by Columbia Records as the follow-up to Carey's commercially successful 1993 album Music Box and 1994 holiday album Merry Christmas. Daydream was slightly different from Music Box, as it leaned increasingly towards R&amp;B and hip hop and features less of a pure blues sound, a decision that was made by Carey and was not initially well received by her record label, Columbia Records. Despite her record label not being impressed about her new sound on the album, the album was well received by critics and fans. In terms of sales, Daydream exceeded expectations &ndash; eventually becoming her second best selling album behind Music Box, shipping 10 million copies in the United States alone. Daydream is Carey's second album to have achieved diamond status in the U.S. Daydream was listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers in their Definitive 200 Albums of All Time as the 116th most influential and popular album in history. In Australia, the album finished 9th on the ARIA 1995 &amp; 1996 End of Year Chart and 2nd on Billboard's 1996 Year-End Chart Daydream remains one of the best-selling albums of all time, with sales of over 25 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  The Remixes (Mariah Carey album)  The Remixes is the first remix album by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on October 14, 2003 by Columbia Records. It is primarily a collection of remixes of some of Carey's songs: disc one is compiled of club mixes, while disc two contains Carey's hip hop collaborations and remixes.
Mariah Carey  Greatest Hits (Mariah Carey album)  Greatest Hits is the eleventh album by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on December 4, 2001 by Columbia Records. It is a greatest hits double album: CD 1 is primarily a collection of Carey's hits from 1990 to 1995, while CD 2 is primarily a collection of hits from 1996 to 2000.
Mariah Carey  Number 1's (Mariah Carey album)  #1's is the first compilation album by American pop/R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey, released by Columbia Records on November 17, 1998. The album contained Carey's thirteen number one singles on the Billboard Hot 100, as well as four new songs. In Japan, Ones also included her popular single All I Want for Christmas Is You, which remained Carey's biggest selling single there. Though showing the characteristics of a regular greatest hits album, Carey expressed a dislike for the track listing, which she called a large collection of her most commercial singles. Carey felt that if Ones was a traditional greatest hits album, then it would include other songs that did not reach number one, but were far more important in her career. She has regularly voiced her frustration with the song choices on the album, expressing her disappointment with the omission of her favorite songs.  Upon release, reviews for the album were mixed, with criticism directed towards both the new material and the decision to include only Carey's number one hits in the United States. While receiving tepid reviews from music critics, the album became a large commercial success throughout the world. It debuted at number four on Billboard 200, number one in Japan, and in the top-ten throughout almost every major music market around the globe. Ones was certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting shipments of over five million copies throughout the Unites States. Aside from the US, the album experienced its strongest sales in Japan, where the album sold over 3,250,000 copies in the first three months after its release. The album was certified the triple-Million award, and remains the best-selling album in Japan by a non-Asian artist. In Europe, Ones was certified double-platinum by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), denoting shipments of well over two million copies throughout the continent. To date, Ones has sold over 17 million copies worldwide. Four singles were released from the album. Serving as the album's lead single was Sweetheart, featuring Jermaine Dupri. The song performed weakly on the charts, peaking within the top-twenty only in Germany and Switzerland. The follow-up single, When You Believe, a duet with Whitney Houston, charted well throughout the world. In the US, the song performed moderately, peaking at number fifteen. In Europe however, the song reached the top-two in Norway, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland and the top-five in Belgium, France, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. When You Believe was featured in the The Prince of Egypt soundtrack, and received the Academy Award for Best Original Song. Sales of Ones were much higher than expected. Due to the albums success and achievements, it was credited with influencing the release of later greatest hits albums by other acts.
Mariah Carey  Number 1's (video)  #1's is Mariah Carey's sixth DVD/video release. It's a collection of the music videos of her U.S. number-one singles (songs that reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100) up to that time. The DVD was released in December 1999. A year before this, Carey had released a greatest hits compilation, #1's, which included her thirteen U.S. number-one singles up to that point. The DVD of the same name is based on that album, but by the time of its release, Carey had already scored a fourteenth U.S. number one, Heartbreaker, from her latest studio release Rainbow. Its music video and the video of its remix (as a bonus track) were thus included on the DVD. Interestingly, at the month of the DVD's release, Carey had also earned her fifteenth number one single, Thank God I Found You. The DVD does not include the official music videos for Vision of Love, Love Takes Time, and Someday, as Carey is embarrassed by them and has often publicly criticised them. They are replaced by live performances culled from previous DVD/video releases. #1's was re-released in 2008 as part of Mariah Carey: DVD Collection, a 2DVD set including also Fantasy: Mariah Carey at Madison Square Garden. The video features a shortened version from the original, without the introductory sections per track.
Mariah Carey  Around the World (video)  Around the World is Mariah Carey's fifth DVD/home video release. The DVD showcases Carey traveling around the world as she explores and performs in various locations such as New York, and on her Butterfly World Tour in Hawaii, Japan, Taiwan and Australia. The DVD was released in April 1999. Like the television special, which premiered in late 1998 on UPN, the DVD uses edited performances of songs. Many songs were edited down to half their length (by discarding the second verse and choruses). The songs so abbreviated include Emotions, Dreamlover, My All, I'll Be There, and Whenever You Call.  Other songs are not edited, as Fantasy, I Still Believe, Honey, and Hero are more or less kept to their original length. The performance of Hero on this program is derived from five separate live performances. The DVD also shows lengthy behind-the-scenes footage including scenes showing Carey exploring Japan, Hawaii, and Australia. Footage is also shown in New York as Carey goes to attend a party thrown for her #1's album, and as she shares deep conversations with her mentor Brenda K. Starr. A cover of the hit song Hopelessly Devoted to You from the movie Grease is also performed with the song's original singer, Olivia Newton-John. As an added bonus of sorts, the music videos for the singles Butterfly, Breakdown, The Roof (Back in Time), and My All are included on the DVD.
Mariah Carey  Emotions (album)  Emotions is the second studio album by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on September 17, 1991 by Columbia Records. Emotions is the follow-up to her 1990 self-titled debut album. It is primarily composed of strong ballads and dance music - written by Carey herself, Walter Afanasieff, Clivillés &amp; Cole (of C+C Music Factory), and Carole King. The album's title track became Carey's fifth consecutive number 1 song on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist to achieve this feat. The album also generated the top 5 singles Can't Let Go and Make It Happen. As with her debut album, Carey wrote and co-produced and musically composed the entire album, providing lyrics for all ten tracks. She was nominated for two Grammy Awards for Producer of the Year and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. Emotions was eventually certified 4x platinum by the RIAA and has sold 3,584,000 copies. The album has sold over eight million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  Fantasy: Mariah Carey at Madison Square Garden  Fantasy: Mariah Carey at Madison Square Garden is Mariah Carey's fourth DVD/home video release. It presents Carey performing live at the Madison Square Garden on October 10, 1995. The home video was originally released in early 1996, and the DVD was released in late 2004. Originally shown as a television special on November 29 1995 on Fox, the video presented Carey performing a concert to celebrate and promote her fourth studio album, Daydream, and to help prepare her and her crew for her 1996 Daydream World Tour. Carey performed five songs from Daydream - Fantasy, One Sweet Day, Always Be My Baby, Open Arms, and Forever - in addition to six of her older hits: Vision of Love, Make It Happen, I'll Be There, Dreamlover, Hero, and Without You.  The concert featured a number of guest stars. Boyz II Men performed One Sweet Day with Carey, and Wanya Morris of Boyz II Men also performed I'll Be There with her. Although he did not perform with Carey, Ol' Dirty Bastard came out after her final performance of Vision of Love was over, and rapped some of his lines to the Bad Boy Remix of Fantasy.  The video release comes with two bonus music videos of One Sweet Day and theC&amp;C Video Edit of Anytime You Need a Friend.  Performances of Vision of Love, Make It Happen, Fantasy, Forever, and One Sweet Day from this concert would later be compiled into audio release as official live versions on commercial/promo singles. Fantasy: Mariah Carey at Madison Square Garden was re-released in 2008 as part of Mariah Carey: DVD Collection, a 2DVD set including also #1's. The video is presented in a slightly altered version, omitting Carey's introduction of her band members preceding Vision of Love, segments of the outro that features Ol' Dirty Bastard, segments of her waving to the crowd at the conclusion of the concert, and the credit of Joy To The World - From St. John The Divine as that performance was not included on the VHS or DVD version of this release (but originally aired on the FOX special).
Mariah Carey  Here Is Mariah Carey  Here Is Mariah Carey, also known simply as Mariah Carey or Mariah's Thanksgiving NBC Special, was Mariah Carey's third DVD/video release. It presents Carey performing live at Proctor's Theatre in Schenectady, New York on July 18, 1993. The video was originally released in late 1993, and the DVD is released on September 12, 2006. First shown as a television special on Thanksgiving 1993 on NBC, the video presents Carey performing a concert to celebrate and promote her Music Box album. She performed four songs from Music Box: Dreamlover, Hero, Without You, and Anytime You Need a Friend; this concert was the first public performance of these songs. Carey also performed five older hits: Vision of Love, Love Takes Time, Someday, Emotions, and Make It Happen.  In addition to the performances, a studio version of the duet I'll Be There by Carey and Trey Lorenz was also shown. This song was also filmed at Proctor's Theatre with members of the Albany Police Athletic League on stage with Mariah. Much of this material would later be featured in Carey's late 1993 Music Box Tour. The video release comes with the music video of Dreamlover.  Performances of Dreamlover and Hero from this concert were later used for audio release as official live versions on commercial/promo singles.
Mariah Carey  The First Vision  The First Vision is Mariah Carey's first video release. It is a collection of music videos, live performances, and behind-the-scenes footage detailing the creation of Carey's debut album Mariah Carey. The home video was originally released on VHS in 1991, while the DVD was released in Japan in late 2004. Music videos of four Mariah Carey singles - Vision of Love, Love Takes Time, Someday, and I Don't Wanna Cry - are featured on this collection; snippets of the album's other single, There's Got to Be a Way, are also included. The collection also includes the debut showcase (the first public showing of a recording artist to the press and the media) of Carey at The Tattoo Club. Carey performs her singles Vision of Love and Love Takes Time, her album track Vanishing, and a cover of Aretha Franklin's Don't Play That Song (You Lied).  She also performed I Don't Wanna Cry at this showcase, but it is not included in this collection. Behind-the-scenes footage includes Carey rehearsing for Saturday Night Live, goofing off with friends like Trey Lorenz, and giving candid interviews detailing her life, dreams, and music. She is also seen singing brief snippets of the album track All in Your Mind and the Jackson 5's Who's Lovin' You.  Performances of Don't Play That Song and Vanishing from this concert would later be used for audio release as official live versions on the Australian special edition of the Mariah Carey album.
Mariah Carey  Music Box (album)  Music Box is the third studio album by American R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey. It was released by Columbia Records on August 31, 1993, in North America. The album comprises of ballads primarily co-written by Carey and Walter Afanasieff, with whom she had previously worked on Emotions (1991), and a few urban dance tracks. During the course of the album's development, Carey wanted broaden her audience, choosing a more pop-oriented sound. During this time frame, they experimented with different organs and other musical instruments, leading the album's sound away from her more contemporary previous efforts. Two unused tracks from the album sessions were released as B-sides: Do You Think of Me and Everything Fades Away.  In order to successfully take the album in a new direction, Carey and Afanasieff sought out new and innovative producers, as well as some from Carey's previous releases. Kenneth Babyface Edmonds first began working with Carey on Music Box, where he helped produce some of the album's softer and more melodious tracks, as well as being part of the songwriting process. Additional writers and producers Robert Clivillés and David Cole (a pair also known as C+C Music Factory) and Daryl Simmons. While the album featured a range of different talented music producers, the bulk of the songwriting was done by Carey and her writing partner, Walter Afanasieff. In future projects, they would continue writing material for Carey's albums, until her 1999 release Rainbow, where he is absent from the writing credits. Four singles were released from the album. The first three, Dreamlover, Hero and Without You became worldwide chart-topping singles, the latter becoming Carey's highest charting international single of her career. Without You became Carey's first number-one single in most European markets and reached the top three in the United States. To promote Music Box, Carey embarked on the short but successful Music Box Tour which traveled to select cities in North America. Carey was nominated for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for Dreamlover at the 1994 Grammy Awards and received the same nomination for Hero at the 1995 Grammy Awards, although she didn't win either time. After its release, Music Box received generally positive reviews from music critics. However, the album endured criticism regarding Carey's more mellow and lazy tone in comparison to her older work. Despite some unfavorable reviews, the album became a commercial success, topping the Billboard 200 and becoming Carey's first number one album in Australia, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) certified it diamond, for shipments of ten million copies across the United States. Music Box remains Carey's highest seller and one of the best-selling albums of all time, with worldwide sales of over 32 million copies.
Mariah Carey  Rainbow (Mariah Carey album)  Rainbow is the seventh studio album by American R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on November 2, 1999 by Columbia Records. Rainbow has been certified 3x platinum by the RIAA. Rainbow was Carey's last album released by Sony/Columbia Records.
Mariah Carey  Charmbracelet  Charmbracelet is the ninth studio album by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on December 3, 2002 by Island Records. It was her first album on the label and was also her first following the release of her film Glitter (2001) and its accompanying soundtrack album Glitter, both of which were critical and commercial disappointments. Sales of Charmbracelet were an improvement over those of Glitter, and the album went platinum in the United States. The album was unable to garner any U.S. hits, as none of its singles made the top 80 of the Billboard Hot 100. She once again collaborated with many artists on this album such as rappers Cam'ron, Jay-Z, Freeway, Westside Connection and R&amp;B artists Kelly Price and Joe. To date, Charmbracelet has sold over 4 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  Merry Christmas (Mariah Carey album)  Merry Christmas is a holiday album and fourth studio album by American singer Mariah Carey. Released by Columbia Records on November 1, 1994, the album features both cover versions of popular Christmas tunes, including some original material. On the album, Carey worked with Walter Afanasieff, with whom she wrote all of the original tracks, as well as producing Carey's interpretations of many holiday classics. With the release of Merry Christmas, Carey proved herself to be an entertainer, not just a pop-singer, as many began to speculate. The album contained a contemporary holiday theme, as well as featuring authentic, gospel flavored background vocals.  The album features instrumentation from keyboards, bass guitars, drums, percussion and heavy backing vocals. The main reason for the album's use of these instruments was to capture a real and authentic church vibe, giving most of the songs a real Christmas and holiday sound. After its release, the album received generally positive reviews and became a worldwide success. Critics praised Carey's uplifting and flavored vocals, as well as her skilled songwriting alongside Afanasieff. Many singles were released from the album, being sent to different radio stations for promotional purposes. Merry Christmas was released at the peak of the initial stretch of Carey's career, between Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995). The album produced the worldwide classic single, All I Want for Christmas Is You, which became the best-selling holiday ringtone in the U.S. The album was certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of over five million copies in the U.S. In Japan, Merry Christmas has sold over 2,500,000 copies and is the second best-selling album of all time by a non-Asian artist, behind only Carey's other release Number 1's. Merry Christmas has sold over twelve million copies worldwide and is one of the best-selling Christmas albums of all time.
Mariah Carey  MTV Unplugged (Mariah Carey EP)  MTV Unplugged is a extended play by American singer Mariah Carey, released in the United States on June 2, 1992 by Columbia Records. It produced the U.S. number 1 single I'll Be There, which was the only new song on the album. To date, MTV Unplugged has sold over 6 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  Glitter (soundtrack)  Glitter is the eighth studio album and soundtrack album to the film of the same name by American R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey. It was released by Virgin Records on September 11, 2001. To date, Glitter has sold over 3 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  MTV Unplugged +3  MTV Unplugged+3 is Mariah Carey's second DVD/video release, a recording of her MTV Unplugged television appearance of March 16, 1992. This material was also released as the EP MTV Unplugged.
Mariah Carey  Valentines (EP)  Valentines is a compilation EP by Mariah Carey, released by Columbia Records in the United States on January 1, 2000. It was a limited edition CD exclusive to Wal-Mart stores and the first Carey record in the U.S. to feature Theme from Mahogany (Do You Know Where You're Going To), a Diana Ross cover originally released as a bonus track on non-U.S. pressings of Carey's compilation album #1's (1998).
Mariah Carey  E=MC² (Mariah Carey album)  E=MC² (abbreviation of Emancipation=Mariah Carey²) is the eleventh studio album by American singer Mariah Carey. The album was released on April 15, 2008 in the United States. It debuted at number 1 on the U.S. Billboard 200 with 463,000 copies sold, making it the biggest opening week in sales of her career. It became Carey's sixth number 1 album on the Billboard 200. The first single from the album, Touch My Body, reached number 1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100, surpassing Elvis Presley for the most number 1 singles by a solo artist. Other singles include the U.S. top twenty song Bye Bye, and U.S. R&amp;B top forty song I'll Be Lovin' U Long Time
Mariah Carey  The Adventures of Mimi (video)  The Adventures of Mimi is the DVD of American R&amp;B singer-songwriter Mariah Carey which documented her 2006 summer concert tour, The Adventures of Mimi. It was released on Blu-Ray disc on April 15, 2008. A new 2-DVD set was released April 16, 2008 in Japan. Also a 3 Disc Deluxe Edition was released on April 15, 2008.
Mariah Carey  The Ballads (Mariah Carey album)  The Ballads (released in the UK in 2010 as LoveSongs) is a compilation album by American pop/R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey. The album features some of Carey's top selling ballads over the course of her career. It was released internationally in late 2008, and in North America in January 2009.
Mariah Carey  Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel  Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel is a studio album by American pop and R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey. It was released on September 29, 2009 through Island Records in the U.S. and November 23, 2009 with Mercury Records in the UK. The album was predominately produced and written by Carey, Christopher Tricky Stewart and Terius The-Dream Nash. To date the album has sold around 2 million copies worldwide.
Mariah Carey  Playlist: The Very Best of Mariah Carey  Playlist: The Very Best of Mariah Carey is a compilation album by American R&amp;B singer Mariah Carey. The album features some of Carey's released and unreleased songs (as singles) over the course of her career. The album was released on January 26, 2010 as part of the Playlist music album series issued by Legacy Recordings, simultaneously with similarly unsanctioned best-of collections of the bands and solo artists Suicidal Tendencies, Blue Öyster Cult, Joe Satriani, Omarion, Steve Vai, 311, R. Kelly, KRS-One and the Backstreet Boys.
Mariah Carey  Merry Christmas II You  Merry Christmas II You is the upcoming thirteenth studio album (and second Christmas album) by American singer Mariah Carey. The album will be released on November 2, 2010 and will feature four original songs, all-time Christmas classics and a re-recorded version of her 1994 Christmas hit All I Want for Christmas Is You.
Marie Osmond  The Best of Marie Osmond  The Best of Marie Osmond is greatest hits album from country music singer Marie Osmond. It was released in 1990 on Curb Records. The album features the 1990 version of Osmond's biggest hit, Paper Roses.
Marie Osmond  There's No Stopping Your Heart  There's No Stopping Your Heart is the fifth solo studio album by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was her first album in seven years and her first album on Capitol/Curb records. It was released in 1985.
Marie Osmond  I Only Wanted You  I Only Wanted You is the sixth solo studio album released by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was Osmond's second album issued on Capitol/Curb Records and was released in 1986.
Marie Osmond  All in Love  All in Love is the seventh solo studio album release by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was her third album release for Curb/Capitol records and was issued in 1988.
Marie Osmond  Steppin' Stone (album)  Steppin' Stone is the title of American country music singer Marie Osmond's eighth solo studio album. It was her fourth and final studio album issued on Capitol/Curb records. It was released in 1989.
Marie Osmond  Paper Roses (album)  Paper Roses is the debut studio album by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was released in late 1973 on MGM Records. It was the first of four MGM albums Osmond would record as solo artist. The album's name came from its title track, Paper Roses, a cover of an Anita Bryant Top 10 hit from 1961. Osmond's version reached #1 on the Billboard Country Chart and #5 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1973. Osmond became the first female country singer to have a #1 hit with her debut single since Connie Smith with Once a Day in 1964. The album includes cover versions of hits by Sonny James (You're the Only World I Know) and Brenda Lee (Fool No. 1). Paper Roses peaked at #1 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart, #59 on the Billboard 200 and #38 on the Canadian Albums Chart. The album was reviewed by Allmusic and was given 2 out of 5 stars; however, the review was written more than 20 years after the album's release and so there was considerable change in music taste between the album's release year and when Allmusic rated it.
Marie Osmond  In My Little Corner of the World  In My Little Corner of the World is the name of the second studio album by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was released on MGM Records in 1974. Marie Osmond's second album was named after the lead and only single from the album, In My Little Corner of the World.  Like Osmond's previous singles, the crossover country-pop hit, Paper Roses, In My Little Corner of the World was a cover version of a major hit by Anita Bryant. Osmond's version however only peaked within the Country Top 40 and made the Bubbling Under Hot 100 charts in 1974. The album was produced by Sonny James. The album peaked at #10 on the Billboard Top Country Albums and #164 on the Billboard 200 in 1974. The album was given 2 out of 5 stars by Allmusic.
Marie Osmond  Who's Sorry Now (album)  Who's Sorry Now is the third solo studio album released by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was her solo album released under MGM Records. The album's lead single was the title track, a cover of Connie Francis' Top 10 Pop hit from 1959. Osmond's version reached the Top 30 on the Billboard Country Chart, the Top 40 on the Billboard Hot 100, and also was a minor on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart. It was the album's only single. The album includes additional covers of songs by Pat Boone (Love Letters in the Sand), Kitty Wells (Making Believe), and Sonny James (It's the Little Things). Who's Sorry Now peaked at #20 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart and #152 on the Billboard 200. In addition, the album was reviewed by Allmusic and received 2.5 out of 5 stars.
Marie Osmond  This Is the Way That I Feel  This is the Way That I Feel is the name of the fourth solo studio album released by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. This was Osmond's first and only album under the Polydor/Knob label, following her departure from MGM Records. It was released in 1977 and would be her last solo studio album eight years. This is the Way That I Feel was a departure for Osmond as it took a more Pop-sounding direction than any of her previous albums. The album produced two singles, only the title track charted, peaking within the Top 40 on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart inm 1977. The album reached a peak of #152 on the Billboard 200 albums chart. The album was produced by Pop music producer, Rick Hall. It was reviewed by Allmusic and was given 3 out of 5 stars.
Marie Osmond  The Magic of Christmas (Marie Osmond album)  The Magic of Christmas is a Holiday album released in 2007 by American country music singer, Marie Osmond. It was Osmond's first studio album since 1989's Steppin' Stone, as well as her first Christmas album. Osmond released this album following her appearance on Dancing with the Stars. This album features guest vocals from syblings, Donny Osmond, Little Jimmy Osmond, and Merrill Osmond. The album is a mixture of cover versions of Christmas standards, such as The Christmas Song and Away in a Manger as well as new songs such as The Locket and Christmas in the Country.  It includes traditional holiday big-band music, as well Country and Christian ballads. Released on the independent label, Hi-Fi label, The Magic of Christmas charted among the Billboard 200 albums chart, reaching a peak 0f #93 towards the end of the year. In addition, it also peaked at #4 on the Top Christian Albums and #9 on the Top Independent Albums chart the same year.
Mark Owen  Green Man (album)  Green Man is the debut album from Take That band member Mark Owen. The album was released on December 2, 1996, weeks after the official split of his former boyband, Take That
Mark Owen  In Your Own Time  In Your Own Time is the second studio album from Take That band member Mark Owen. The album was released on November 3, 2003, nearly seven years after his first album. Due to the popularity of In Your Own Time, his first album, Green Man
Mark Owen  How the Mighty Fall  How The Mighty Fall is the third and final studio album from Take That band member, Mark Owen. The album was released on April 18, 2005, nearly two years after his second album. Three singles were released from the album: Makin' Out, Believe In The Boogie and Hail Mary. This remains the last studio album released by Owen to date, mainly due to the reunuin of his former boyband, Take That
Marta Sánchez  Mujer  Mujer (Spanish for Woman) is the title of the first album by Spanish singer Marta Sánchez. It was released in 1993, and was produced by Christian De Walden. The album's first single Desesperada was an instant success in Mexico and Spain, reaching #1 in both countries and #9 on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks http://www. billboard. com/bbcom/retrieve_chart_history. do?model. vnuArtistId=120259&amp;model. vnuAlbumId=951413. For this single, the artist won Best Dance Song at the 1994 Eres Awards in México. The second single De Mujer a Mujer was another hit. Tal Vez and Nube de Verano were released as third and fourth singles, respectively, in Latin-America, however in Europe Amén and Lejos de Aquella Noche were successful singles also. The album sold one million copies internationally and remains the biggest seller for the artist and was included on the Annual Review for the Best Albums of 1994 by the Mexican Magazine Eres. Woman is the English version of the album, includes the same tracks on different order and a bonus track: a new version of Desesperada entitled Desperate Lovers featuring Paulo Ricardo. Mujer peaked at #49 on the Top Latin Albums chart.
Melanie Brown  L.A. State of Mind  L.A. State Of Mind is the second solo album from Melanie Brown, famously known as Spice Girl Mel B. Brown surprised fans with her return, it having been five years since her debut album, Hot. The only single from the album was Today, for which Melanie completed a two-week promotional tour of the UK. Brown, who at the time resided in Los Angeles
Melanie Brown  Hot (Melanie Brown album)  Hot is the debut album by British singer Melanie B, who is a member of the Spice Girls. The album was released on October 9, 2000, less than a month before the release of Forever, the third studio album by the Spice Girls; this is cited as the main reason that Hot was not successful: fans were more interested in the Spice Girls comeback album rather than Melanie B's debut. Despite being released only two weeks after the top 5 hit Tell Me
Melanie Chisholm  Northern Star (Melanie C album)  Northern Star is the first solo album released by Spice Girl Melanie C. It was released in 1999. The album contains significant elements of rock music, which contrasted with the pop sound of the Spice Girls. It was reasonably well received by critics and was a commercial success, selling over 900,520 copies in the United Kingdom, and close to 4 million copies worldwide, becoming the biggest-selling solo Spice Girl album so far.
Melanie Chisholm  Beautiful Intentions  Beautiful Intentions is the third solo album from former Spice Girls member Melanie C. The first on her self-founded label Red Girl Records after parting ways with her old record label. The album has been Melanie's labour of love for a year, and she previewed several tracks on her Barfly mini tour in June 2004 before going into the studio to record the tracks. Following the release of the first single, Next Best Superstar, the album was released on 11 April 2005 in the UK and some international countries. Later the album was re-released in some countries (with a new song on it - First Day of My Life). Melanie stated in an Australian interview that she was pleased Beautiful Intentions has outsold her previous album Reason. Beautiful Intentions has received Gold certification in Germany, Switzerland and Austria. In Portugal it has gone 2&times; Platinum
Melanie Chisholm  Reason (Melanie C album)  Reason is Melanie C's second album, the follow-up to Northern Star
Melanie Chisholm  Live Hits  Live Hits is the first live DVD released by UK singer Melanie C. Recorded in late August (2006) at The Bridge in south east London and features Melanie performing a selection of songs from her first three albums in both acoustic and full band sets. The DVD has sold about 100,000 in total The DVD also features interviews, back stage footage, photo galleries and several hidden alternative versions of the tracks (Easter Eggs).
Melanie Chisholm  Live at the Hard Rock Cafe  Live at the Hard Rock Cafe is the second live DVD released by UK singer Melanie C. Filmed October 8th 2008 at Hard Rock Cafe Manchester, it features Melanie performing a selection of songs from her four albums. Fans from all over the world came not only to see Melanie perform, but also to help raise money for Hard Rock Cafe's yearly fundraiser, Pinktober. Already five months pregnant, Melanie performed a selection of her greatest hits along with some personal favourites during a 75 minute set. Filmed with just three camcorders, this film captures the raw intensity of this special acoustic event. Just 1750 copies were pressed and the DVD was only available through her official online store. All proceeds from this limited edition DVD were donated to the Caron Keating Foundation.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Thriller (album)  Thriller is the sixth studio album by American recording artist Michael Jackson. It was released on November 30, 1982 by Epic Records as the follow-up to Jackson's critically and commercially successful 1979 album Off the Wall. Thriller explores similar genres to those of Off the Wall, including pop, soul, R&amp;B, rock and post-disco music. Recording sessions took place between April and November 1982 at Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles, California, with a production budget of $750,000, assisted by producer Quincy Jones. Jackson wrote four of Thriller&#39;s nine tracks. In just over a year, Thriller became—and remains as of 2010—the best-selling album of all time, with sales estimated by various sources as somewhere between 65 and 110 million copies worldwide, and is tied with Eagles' Their Greatest Hits (1971–1975) as the best-selling album in the United States. Seven of the album's nine songs were released as singles, and all reached the top 10 on the Billboard Hot 100. The album won a record-breaking eight Grammy Awards at the 1984 Grammys. Thriller cemented Jackson's status as one of the prominent pop stars of the late 20th century, and enabled him to break down racial barriers via his appearances on MTV and meeting with President Ronald Reagan at the White House. The album was one of the first to use music videos as successful promotional tools—the videos for Thriller, Billie Jean and Beat It all received regular rotation on MTV. In 2001, a special edition issue of the album was released, which contains additional audio interviews, a demo recording and the song Someone In the Dark, which was a Grammy-winning track from the E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial storybook. In 2008, the album was reissued again as Thriller 25, containing re-mixes that feature contemporary artists, a previously unreleased song and a DVD. Thriller ranked number 20 on Rolling Stone magazine's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time list in 2003, and was listed by the National Association of Recording Merchandisers at number three in its Definitive 200 Albums of All Time. The Thriller video was preserved by the Library of Congress to the National Recording Registry, as it was deemed culturally significant.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Bad (album)  Bad is the seventh studio album by American songwriter and recording artist Michael Jackson. The album was released on August 31, 1987 by Epic/CBS Records, nearly five years after Jackson's previous studio album, Thriller, which went on to become the world's best-selling album. Bad itself sold over 30 million copies worldwide, and shipped eight million units in the United States alone, and has been cited as being one of the best selling albums of all time. Bad is the only album to have five of its singles peak at number one on the Billboard Hot 100. Similar to Jackson's previous music material, the album's music features elements of R&amp;B, pop and rock. Bad was recorded throughout 1987. The lyrical themes on the record relate to paranoia, romance and self-improvement. Bad is widely regarded as having cemented Jackson's status as one of the most successful artists of the 1980s, as well enhancing his solo career and being one of the best musical projects of his career. Despite the album's commercial success, it has been viewed as a relative failure when compared to the sales of Thriller. Ten of the eleven songs on Bad were released as singles; one was a promotional single and another was released outside of the United States and Canada. One of the singles charted within the top-ten, and another charted within the top-twenty on the Hot 100. The single that was released outside of the United States and Canada was commercially successful, charting within the top ten and top twenty in multiple territories. Bad peaked at number one in seven countries, as well as charting within the top twenty in other territories. The only song on the album which wasn't released as a single was Just Good Friends. Siedah Garrett was involved in the Bad album. She co-wrote Man in the Mirror and she and Michael sang I Just Can't Stop Loving You. Bad saw Jackson exercise even more artistic freedom than he did with his two previous Epic releases. On Bad, Jackson composed nine of the album's eleven tracks and received co-producer credit for the entire album. The album continued Jackson's commercial success in the late 1980s and garnered six Grammy Award nominations, winning two. Aside from commercial success the album also received positive reviews from contemporary critics. Bad was ranked number forty three in the 100 Greatest Albums of All Time of the MTV Generation in 2009 by VH1. It was ranked number 202 in Rolling Stone magazine's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. The album marked the final collaboration between Jackson and producer Quincy Jones.
Michael Joseph Jackson  HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I  HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I (usually shortened to HIStory) is the ninth studio album by American songwriter and recording artist Michael Jackson, released on June 16, 1995 by Epic Records. The majority of the albums tracks were written and produced by Jackson. HIStory was the first album to be released by Jackson since he was accused of child sexual abuse in August 1993. Recorded during late 1994 and early 1995, several of the double album's fifteen songs pertain to the accusations and Jackson's perceived mistreatment in the media, specifically the tabloids. The song's themes included environmental awareness, isolation, greed, and injustice. HIStory is one of Jackson's most controversial albums. Jackson was accused of using anti-Semitic lyrics in They Don't Care About Us. Jackson stated that he did not mean any offense and on multiple occasions denied anti-Semitism. The dispute regarding the lyrics ended with Jackson re-recording the lyrics. R. Kelly was accused of plagiarizing one of the album's songs, You Are Not Alone. In 2007 a judge ruled that the song was plagiarized and the song was subsequently banned from radio stations in Belgium. Six singles, and two promotional singles were released from HIStory; Scream, You Are Not Alone, Earth Song, This Time Around, They Don't Care About Us and Stranger in Moscow. This Time Around was released as a radio only single, and Earth Song, They Don't Care About Us and Stranger in Moscow were less successful within the United States, but were successful internationally; all three peaking within the top ten in multiple countries. As part of promotion for the song's, music video's were released, which have become influential on other artist's material. The first disc (HIStory Begins) is a compilation album of previous hits by Jackson, whereas the second disc (HIStory Continues) comprises new material. The album was generally well received by music critics. Aside from critical success, the album was also commercially successful, debuting and peaking at number one in twelve counties, including the United States, Canada, Australia, France and the United Kingdom, as well as charting within the top ten in Spain and Mexico. HIStory is the best-selling multiple disc album ever by a solo artist, with worldwide sales of over 20 million copies (40 million in terms of units). The album was nominated for five Grammy Awards, winning one for Best Music Video — Short Form for Scream. The greatest hits disc of the album was reissued on November 13, 2001 under the name Greatest Hits: HIStory, Volume I and has reportedly sold four million copies worldwide as of early 2010.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix  Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix is a remix album by Michael Jackson. The album is made up of eight remixes from Jackson's previous studio album HIStory, and five new songs. Jackson was heavily involved with the production of the new material, while the remixes were produced by other artists. The new material dealt with themes such as drug addiction, women, and paranoia. The album received minimal promotion by Jackson's standards, particularly in the US. Still, a film, two singles and three music videos were issued as promotion. Reviews at the time of release were largely mixed, some critics felt that Jackson had already explored these musical themes while others criticized what they perceived as weak vocals. Other critics were favorable, with praise issued for similarities to the music of Marilyn Manson and Trent Reznor. Worldwide sales stand at eight million copies as of 2010, making it the best selling remix album ever released. Several contemporary critics view the material in an increasingly favorable light and believe the album could have been more successful—commentators argue that certain sections of the world took interest in tabloid stories about the singers personal life over his musical career.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Number Ones (Michael Jackson album)  Number Ones is a single-disc greatest hits album of singer-songwriter Michael Jackson released by Sony Music worldwide on November 17, 2003 (and one day later in the United States). It was Jackson's first proper compilation album with Sony, after the release of HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I in 1995 . Adopting the concept from blockbuster greatest hits compilations such as The Beatles' 1 (2000) or ELV1S: 30#1 Hits
Michael Joseph Jackson  Invincible (Michael Jackson album)  Invincible is the tenth and last studio album by American recording artist Michael Jackson released in his lifetime. The album was released by Epic Records on October 30, 2001. Invincible was the first release of new Jackson material since Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix in 1997 and the first studio album in six years since HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. Jackson, Rodney Jerkins, R. Kelly and Teddy Riley received producing and writing credits among others. Similar to Jackson's previous material, the themes in Invincible are mainly based on Jackson's personal experiences with fame and media, romance, and social issues. Invincible received generally mixed reviews from contemporary music critics. The album's singles were incomplete in their release. Jackson was able to use these conflicts as leverage to exit his contract early. Three singles were released from the album: You Rock My World, Cry and Butterflies of which the first and second were released as physical singles internationally (except the USA) and the third one being a US-only radio-airplay single. The album's first and last singles charted within the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100 Chart, and they peaked at number one and within the top ten worldwide; Cry was less commercially successful. Following a conflict between Jackson and his record label, Sony Music stopped promoting the album. The album was the recipient of one Grammy Award nomination for Best Pop Vocal Performance - Male, as well as being voted, by readers of Billboard magazine, the best album of the decade. The album was a commercial success; it peaked at number one in eleven territories worldwide, including the United States (with sales of 363,000 units its first week), the United Kingdom, Australia, France and Switzerland. Invincible charted within the top ten in six other territories; its least successful charting area was Mexico, where the album peaked at number twenty nine. Invincible re-entered music charts several times during the decade. Despite the reported worldwide sales of thirteen million copies, the album has been viewed as a commercial failure compared to Jackson's previous albums sales.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Ultimate Collection (Michael Jackson album)  The Ultimate Collection is a limited edition box set of Michael Jackson's music, consisting of four audio CDs and one DVD. Selling over a million copies, the DVD marked the first appearance of Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour, which was later released as an individual title in 2005.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Got to Be There  Got to Be There was the solo debut album by Michael Jackson, released by Motown Records on January 24, 1972. It includes the song of the same name, which was released in the October 7, 1971 as Jackson's debut solo single. It would go on to sell over 5.2 million copies worldwide. The album was later remastered and reissued in 2009 as part of the 3-disc compilation Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Ben (album)  Ben is the second studio album by American recording artist Michael Jackson. The album was released on August 4, 1972, while Jackson was still a member of The Jackson 5. The album received mixed reviews from contemporary music critics. Ben was more successful on music charts than Jackson's previous studio album, having charted within the top ten on the Billboard 200. Internationally, the album was less successful, peaking at number twelve in Canada, while charting within the top 200 positions in Australia and France. Worldwide, Ben has sold a reported five million units. The album released one single, the title track Ben, which was a commercial success on music charts, peaking at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, giving Jackson his first number one single on the chart. Ben also charted within the top ten in other territories worldwide. Everybody's Somebody's Fool was planned to be released as the second single from the album, but canceled for unspecified reasons. Two of the album's songs were stripped in 2009 as part of the three-disc compilation Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Music & Me  Music &amp; Me was the third solo album by American singer Michael Jackson, released in 1973 on the Motown label, selling four million copies worldwide. The album was reissued in 2009 as part of the 3-disc compilation Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Forever, Michael  Forever, Michael is the fourth studio album by American recording artist Michael Jackson. The album, which was released in 1975, was the fourth and last studio album by him to be released by Motown Records. Forever, Michael was generally well received by contemporary music critics. Unlike Jackson's previous studio albums released within the 1970s, the album was not commercially successful worldwide. Except for the peak position of number one-hundred-one on the Billboard 200 and number ten on a Billboard component chart in the United States, the album did not chart on any music charts. Although the album has reportedly sold over four million copies worldwide since its release. The album, with the length of over thirty minutes, is credited as having material with R&amp;B, pop, soul and pop rock material. Edward Holland, Jr. , Brian Holland, Hal Davis, Freddie Perren, Sam Brown III served as producers to Forever, Michael. As part of promotion for the album, three singles were released from Forever, Michael, all of which were moderate commercial successes on the Billboard Hot 100 and other music charts worldwide. Songs from the album were reissued in 2009 after Jackson's death in June of the same year as part of the 3-disc compilation album entitled, Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection.
Michael Joseph Jackson  One Day in Your Life (album)  One Day in Your Life is a compilation of Michael Jackson's mid-1970s recordings when he was between the ages of 15 and 17, released by Motown Records in 1981. Two million copies were sold worldwide. Most of the tracks are from his fourth studio album, Forever, Michael. The other songs were taken from The Jackson 5 releases to pad the album's running time. Motown later admitted that the album was a quick cash boost generating from the success of Jackson's Off the Wall album. The title track became a worldwide hit, especially in the United Kingdom.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Farewell My Summer Love  Farewell My Summer Love (originally titled Farewell My Summer Love 1984 and later re-issued as Here I Am in Germany) is a compilation of unreleased archived Michael Jackson recordings from 1973 until 1975. The album was released by Motown Records in the U.S. on May 15, 1984 as a lost Michael Jackson solo album that was meant to be released in 1975, but was later held off because of The Jackson 5's renewed success with Dancing Machine, making it the seventh album if it was released as a studio album. The nine songs featured on the album were originally recorded in 1973 but had not been previously released. To give the album a more 1980s sound, Motown remixed the songs and added all new musical overdubs. The task of playing the updated sound was given to musicians Tony Peluso, Michael Lovesmith and Steve Barri. Together with drummer Mike Baird
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Essential Michael Jackson  The Essential Michael Jackson is a 2005 greatest hits compilation released by Sony Music's catalog division Legacy Recordings as part of The Essential series. The two-disc compilation features thirty-eight hit songs by Michael Jackson, from his days at Motown Records with The Jackson 5 in the late 1960s to his 2001 hit You Rock My World. It was released on July 19, 2005 in the United States (released a day earlier in the United Kingdom). On August 26, 2008, The Essential Michael Jackson 3.0 was released in the US as a Limited Edition containing an additional disc of seven songs performed by Jackson. A re-titled release in the UK was planned on July 6, 2009 as The Hits, but was cancelled upon Jackson's death. As of 2009 the album was certified 2x platinum in the US, it's estimated that over seven million copies have been sold worldwide, making it the highest selling edition in Sony's The Essential line.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Visionary: The Video Singles  Visionary: The Video Singles is a series of 20 of Michael Jackson's hit singles, released in Europe between February 20, 2006 and June 26, 2006, and then released in North America as a boxed set on November 14, 2006. The cover artwork for the boxset is a photomosaic using images from Jackson's career.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Best of Michael Jackson  The Best of Michael Jackson is a compilation of Michael Jackson's greatest hits and was released in 1975 by his former record company Motown. It sold 2.4 million copies worldwide and peaked at number forty-four on the U.S. R&amp;B albums chart. A Collection of Michael Jackson's Oldies is a first compilation of his greatest hits and was released on December 8, 1972.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Anthology (Michael Jackson album)  Anthology is a compilation of Motown hits by pop and R&amp;B singer Michael Jackson with additional hits by The Jackson 5 and rare, unreleased material from 1973. The album was originally released in the U.S. on November 14, 1986 and re-released on November 8, 1995 and has sold three million copies worldwide. In 2008, in celebration of Jackson's 50th birthday, Anthology was re-released under Universal Music's Gold series.
Michael Joseph Jackson  HIStory on Film, Volume II  HIStory on Film, Volume II is a collection of music videos released by Michael Jackson in 1997 released by Sony Music Video Enterprises.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour  Live in Bucharest: The Dangerous Tour is a live concert DVD released by Michael Jackson in 2005. The DVD was previously included with the Michael Jackson: The Ultimate Collection box set. The concert took place during Jackson's first leg on his Dangerous World Tour on October 1, 1992 at the Bucharest National Stadium, with a sold-out attendance of 70,000. This concert is the only concert by Jackson that has been officially released on DVD in the United States. The only other official release by Michael Jackson was a VHS of his HIStory Tour concert in Seoul, South Korea, and it was released only in South Korea There are various versions of the same concert that exist. The first version was broadcast the next day by BBC; following Jackson's death, this version was rebroadcast on BNN/Ned3. All the footage in this version is from the Bucharest concert. The version that appears on the DVD was broadcast on HBO in 1992, which became the highest audience in the channel's history for a single broadcast. This version, while mostly having footage of Jackson performing at the Bucharest Concert (some in alternate camera angles in comparison to the BBC version), also consisted of footage from concerts in other locations such as Madrid and Wembley, as well as heavily edited crowd noises. Some of the audio (such as Human Nature) was also dubbed with audio from another concert as Jackson had the flu. Also missing was the We Are the World Interlude that was included in the original BBC Telecast. Due to the heavy editing done on the DVD, it has been criticized by some fans. The DVD has sold over a million copies worldwide.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The One (video)  Michael Jackson The One is a DVD release of the CBS special that aired in January 2004. Released by Epic Records, it contains clips from songs such as Smooth Criminal, Billie Jean, Black or White, I Want You Back, Workin' Day and Night, Wanna Be Startin' Somethin', Another Part of Me, One More Chance and You Rock My World. It has been certified Gold in the US five months after release, with shipments amassing 50,000 units by that point. The certification body of the US—the RIAA—recognizes the DVD as an official Michael Jackson production.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Number Ones (video)  Number Ones is a video album by American songwriter and recording artist Michael Jackson. It was released on DVD on November 13, 2003 under the Epic Records record label, in conjunction with the promotion for Jackson's greatest hits album, of the same name (although the album and DVD have different songs). The DVD, which is Jackson's fourth DVD album, contained fifteen music videos, which was directed and produced by various people. It consists of music videos filmed and released by Jackson since 1979s Off the Wall to 2001s Invincible. Notable music videos included on the DVD were Beat It, Billie Jean and Thriller&mdash;which received heavy rotation on MTV in the 1980s, and are credited as having transformed the music video from a promotional tool and into an art form, and Black or White and Scream which were also prominent on channels like MTV in the 1990s. Number Ones received praise from contemporary music critics and was commercially successful internationally. The DVD peaked at number one on the Australian Top 40 Music DVD in Australia. Number Ones has been certified twenty one times platinum in Australia by the Australian Recording Industry Association and is the best selling music DVD ever by a male solo artist in Australia. It is also thirteen times platinum in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Video Greatest Hits – HIStory  Video Greatest Hits – HIStory is a collection of Michael Jackson's greatest hits released initially on VHS and Laserdisc in 1995 by Sony Music Video Enterprises, and then on DVD in 2001. The DVD version contains extended versions of some videos in place of edited transmitted versions previously included on the VHS and Laserdisc versions, a Dolby 5.1 Surround mix and a discography.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Dangerous – The Short Films  Dangerous - The Short Films is a collection of music videos from the Dangerous album by Michael Jackson released initially on VHS, in 1993 released by Buena Vista Home Video, and then on DVD in 2001. It was re-packaged with Dangerous in a two disc set in 2008.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Wiz: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack  The Wiz: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album for the 1978 film adaptation of the Broadway musical The Wiz. Although the film was produced for Universal Pictures by Motown Records' film division, the soundtrack album was issued on MCA Records as a two-LP collection. Chiefly produced by Quincy Jones, The Wiz soundtrack features cast performances by the stars of the film, including Diana Ross, Michael Jackson, Nipsey Russell, Ted Ross, Mabel King, Theresa Merritt, Thelma Carpenter, and Lena Horne. The track selection is made up of both songs from the original 1975 Broadway musical by Charlie Smalls and Luther Vandross, as well as new songs written for the film by Quincy Jones, Nickolas Ashford &amp; Valerie Simpson, and Anthony Jackson. This soundtrack marks Jones' first collaboration with Jackson; Jones would go on to produce Jackson's hit solo albums Off the Wall, Thriller, and Bad.
Michael Joseph Jackson  D.S. (song)  D.S.  is an album track by Michael Jackson from his 1995 double disc record HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. It is track six on the second disc, one of the three songs from that disc whose lyrics are printed in the album booklet, and is four minutes and forty-nine seconds in length. The song is often cited as a derogatory reference to Santa Barbara County District Attorney Tom Sneddon, whose name is similar to the subject of the song, Dom Sheldon. When Jackson was accused of child sexual abuse in 1993, the investigation was controlled by Sneddon, who also ordered that Jackson be strip searched. The criminal investigation was subsequently closed due to lack of evidence and Jackson was not charged with a crime. Jackson was angered by the allegations, his perception of being mistreated by the police and media, and the negative effect on his health. Shortly afterwards, he began work on HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. The track D.S.  is written, composed and produced by Jackson and includes a guitar solo by Slash. It is a rock song that conveys themes such as bitterness, isolation and paranoia much like the rest of the album. There was no major critical analysis of the song from mainstream reviews when HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I was issued, but the song's connection to Tom Sneddon was widely reported in the media. Jackson was subsequently involved in projects that made coded references to Sneddon and the 1993 investigation. Jackson was the subject of another child sexual abuse allegation in 2003, with the investigation and 2005 trial prosecution again led by Sneddon. These repeated investigations and derogatory comments made against Jackson have led to allegations that Sneddon had, or appeared to have, a vendetta against the singer. Fans of the entertainer sang D.S.  outside the court house of Jackson's 2005 trial every day.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Dangerous (album)  Dangerous is the eighth studio album by Michael Jackson, released on November 22, 1991. It became his second to debut at #1 on the Billboard 200 album chart, where it spent the next four consecutive weeks. The album has sold over 32 million copies worldwide. The album won one Grammy for Best Engineered Album - Non Classical won by Bruce Swedien &amp; Teddy Riley and is the most successful new jack swing album of all time. Dangerous was the first album ever to spawn eight consecutive UK Top 20 hits.
Michael Joseph Jackson  King of Pop (album)  King of Pop is a compilation album released in commemoration of Michael Jackson's 50th birthday. The album differs significantly in each country it was released because fan voting was employed to determine the songs for each country's version. The album's title comes from the title Jackson acquired approximately 20 years earlier. The album's launch was made public on June 20, 2008 with the official announcement of the Australian version. The first release came with the German edition (which is identical to the Swiss edition) on August 22, 2008. Fans in countries where Sony BMG operates national offices were given the opportunity to vote for songs from a list of Jackson's back catalogue to be included in their country's version of the album. Aside from the tracks selected by fans, a megamix of five songs from the Thriller album by Jason Nevins was also included in the pool. The album has been released in a total of 26 countries. Each pool list and release date differed slightly by country. Billie Jean is the only song to appear on all versions of the album. There has been no announcement of a release in North America. King of Pop has sold over five million copies worldwide.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Off the Wall (album)  Off the Wall is the fifth studio album by the American pop musician Michael Jackson, released August 10, 1979 on Epic Records, after Jackson's critically well received film performance in The Wiz. While working on that project, Jackson and Quincy Jones had become friends, and Jones agreed to work with Jackson on his next studio album. Recording sessions took place between December 1978 and June 1979 at Allen Zentz Recording, Westlake Recording Studios, and Cherokee Studios in Los Angeles, California. Jackson collaborated with a number of other writers and performers such as Paul McCartney, Stevie Wonder and Rod Temperton. Jackson wrote several of the songs himself, including the Platinum-certified lead single, Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough. The record was a departure from Jackson's previous work for Motown. Several critics observed that Off the Wall was crafted from funk, disco-pop, soul, soft rock, jazz and pop ballads. Jackson received positive reviews for his vocal performance on the record. The record gained positive reviews and won the singer his first Grammy Award since the early 1970s. With Off the Wall, Jackson became the first solo artist to have four singles from the same album peak inside the top 10 of the Billboard Hot 100. The album was a commercial success, to date it is certified for 8× Multi-Platinum in the US and has sold more than 20 million copies worldwide. On October 16, 2001, a special edition reissue of Off the Wall was released by Sony Records. Recent reviews by Allmusic and Blender have continued to praise Off the Wall for its appeal in the 21st century. In 2003, the album was ranked number 68 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The National Association of Recording Merchandisers listed it at number 80 of the Definitive 200 Albums of All Time. In 2008, Off the Wall was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Thriller 25  Thriller 25 is a 25th anniversary special edition reissue of the Michael Jackson album Thriller, the world's best selling album. The prospect of a second chapter to Thriller was first publicly discussed on Access Hollywood in late 2006. Jackson said he would discuss the idea with collaborator will.i. am. It was released in Australia on February 8, 2008, then internationally on February 11, 2008 and the following day in the United States. Thriller 25 was released by Sony BMG's re-issue division, Legacy Recordings. In the United Kingdom, the BBFC gave it a '15' certificate because it included the video for Thriller. It is the first Jackson album with an age certificate. Along with the original material, the reissue contained remixes, new material, a DVD and collaborations with several contemporary artists. Two singles, The Girl Is Mine 2008 and Wanna Be Startin' Somethin' 2008 were released from the album to moderate success and a number of the other remixes charted, despite no physical release. Thriller 25 was a commercial success, selling three million copies worldwide in its 12 weeks and was generally well received among critics, despite their view that the new material was not as inspiring as the original.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Looking Back to Yesterday  Looking Back to Yesterday is a 1986 compilation album featuring tracks from Michael Jackson and The Jackson 5. As part of Motown's Never-Before-Released series, all songs were previously unreleased except for Love's Gone Bad and I Was Made To Love Her, alternate versions were released in 1979 on the Motown compilation Boogie. The album was re-released in August 1991 and re-titled Looking Back To Yesterday: A Young Michael and sold over half a million copies. It was re-released again as part of Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection in 2009.
Michael Joseph Jackson  E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (album)  E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial is an audiobook and soundtrack album narrated by Michael Jackson for the 1982 Steven Spielberg-directed blockbuster film of the same name. Produced by Quincy Jones and distributed under MCA Records, the album's production brought Jackson together with several former collaborators and acquaintances such as Rod Temperton, Freddy DeMann and Bruce Swedien. The album was released in November 1982, the same month as Jackson's sixth studio album Thriller (1982). Court action taken by the pop star's record label, subsequently forced the album to be withdrawn. During its limited release, E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial reached number 82 on the UK Albums Chart. It was well received critically and earned Jackson a Grammy Award for Best Recording for Children.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Dangerous (Michael Jackson song)  Dangerous is an R&amp;B-pop song by American recording artist Michael Jackson. The song appeared on Jackson's solo studio album of the same name, released in November 1991. Written and composed by Jackson, Bill Bottrell and Teddy Riley, the song was planned as the tenth single from the album. These plans were canceled due to allegations of child sexual abuse which were made against Jackson in August 1993, Jackson's health concerns, and the failure of previous single, Gone Too Soon, to top the charts. Prior to the planned release of the song, Dangerous received a positive reaction from contemporary critics in reviews of the track's parent album. Although the song has not been released as a single, Dangerous entered music charts in mid-2009 after Jackson's death in June. In 1994, songwriter Crystal Cartier alleged that Jackson, Bottrell and Riley had plagiarized Dangerous. At the subsequent court hearing the judge ruled in favor of Jackson, Bottrell and Riley, due to lack of evidence; Cartier was refused the right to appeal her case.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Collection (Michael Jackson album)  The Collection is a compilation set by Michael Jackson released four days after his death, though its release was already scheduled before Jackson's passing. With the exception of HIStory, it contains all of Jackson's Epic studio albums. It has peaked at number one in several countries. This set was originally available, albeit in different packaging, in 2001 as a very rare UK promo set to celebrate the release of Invincible at 34 Westferry Circus in Canary Wharf, London. This compilation also marks the beginning of Jackson's posthumous legacy. The artwork scheme is similar to to the King of Pop UK edition album.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Michael Jackson: The Stripped Mixes  Michael Jackson: The Stripped Mixes (also simply known as The Stripped Mixes), is a collection of American recording artist and former Jackson 5 member Michael Jackson's classic songs. The songs featured on the album are mainly from Jackson's career as a member of the Jackson 5 from the 1960s to the 1980s; songs credited to Jackson as a solo artist are from his albums during his Motown-era. Other songs included on the album are stripped mixes of Jackson material, meaning the songs are of a quieter tone and most of the drums have been removed. Following a surge in Jackson's popularity after his death in June 2009, it was confirmed on July 7, that The Stripped Mixes would be released. The album was made available as a digital download on July 7, 2009, and as a CD on July 28. A remixed song, entitled I'll Be There (Minus Mix), was released on iTunes to promote the album In June 2009. The Stripped Mixes was the second Jackson compilation album to be posthumously released, the first being The Collection; which was released over two weeks prior. The Stripped Mixes received mixed reviews from music critics. The album was a moderate commercial success worldwide and had a better chart performance internationally than in the United States.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection  Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection is a 71-track triple disc compilation album commemorating Michael Jackson's early years with Motown Records. The album features Jackson's four solo LPs from Motown (dating from 1971 to 1975), plus songs that were released after he left the company.
Michael Joseph Jackson  A Place with No Name  A Place With No Name is a song by American recording artist Michael Jackson. A 24-second snippet of the full song was released posthumously by website TMZ. com in July 2009, three weeks after the singer's death. The track resembles A Horse With No Name, a hit song by rock band America. At the time of the leak, America stated that they were honored that Michael Jackson chose to sample their work. It is unknown whether the full version of A Place With No Name will ever be released, though it has been claimed that there are dozens and dozens of unreleased Jackson songs that could be issued for several years to come.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Remix Suite  The Remix Suite is a compilation of remixed hits by Michael Jackson. Although labeled as a Michael Jackson release, the majority of remixes are of hits during his tenure with The Jackson 5. Starting from August 25th, five remixes each were released digitally as suites via iTunes, AmazonMP3 and Rhapsody every two weeks. The first suite leaked online two weeks before its intended digital release.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Michael Jackson's This Is It (album)  Michael Jackson's This Is It (or simply This Is It) is a posthumous two-disc soundtrack / compilation album by American recording artist Michael Jackson. Released by Epic Records on October 26, 2009, This Is It features previously released music, as well as six previously unreleased recordings by Michael Jackson. This Is It was released to coincide with the theatrical release of Michael Jackson's This Is It, a concert film documenting Michael Jackson's rehearsals for This Is It concert series. This Is It is the sixth album to be released by Sony and Motown/Universal since Michael Jackson's death in June 2009. This Is It was made available as both a compact disc, an album and an EP digital download. This Is It debuted at number one in fourteen countries, including the United States, Canada, Japan, Italy and France. Aside from charting at number 11 in Finland, This Is It peaked within the top 10 of the charts in other nations. This Is It has been certified Gold, Platinum, and twice-Platinum in multiple countries. This Is It was the twelfth best selling album of 2009 in the United States and the third best selling album of 2009 based on worldwide sales. The album has sold over five million copies worldwide.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Tabloid Junkie  Tabloid Junkie is a pop song performed by American recording artist Michael Jackson. The song appeared as the album's eleventh track on Jackson's ninth studio album, entitled HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I, which was released in 1995 as a two-disc set. The song was written, composed, and produced by Michael Jackson, Jimmy Jam (James Harris III) and Terry Lewis. The song received generally positive reviews from music critics. Tabloid Junkie is a pop-rock song, with lyrics that pertain to media bias and negative coverage of rumors about Jackson and his personal life, similar to previous songs recorded by Jackson. Tabloid Junkie is the seventh song on HIStory: Past, Present And Future, Book I to be aimed at the media. The track was not released as a single from the album and did not chart on any music charts from radio air-play or from digital download sales.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Original Soul of Michael Jackson  The Original Soul of Michael Jackson is a compilation of songs by Michael Jackson, recorded early in his solo career in the early 1970s and released in 1987. While the album claims to 'contains music never before released', the only new song available was a re-dubbed cover of Edwin Starr's 1970 hit Twenty-Five Miles, sung by the Jackson Five and solely credited to Michael. The original recording of the song was included on the 2009 set Hello World: The Motown Solo Collection. Some songs were newly edited on the album, with a newly dubbed version of Dancing Machine. Ain't No Sunshine were also slightly different in the vocals and a modern drum machine were added to Twenty-Five Miles. Melodie was planned for a single in an effort to promote the record in the US, but was scrapped for a promo-only single Twenty-Five Miles/Up On The Housetop.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Another Day (Michael Jackson song)  Another Day is a song by American recording artist Michael Jackson. A 90-second snippet of the full song was released posthumously onto the Internet by an unknown source on January 2, 2010, several months after Jackson's death in June 2009. Shortly after, singer-songwriter Lenny Kravitz confirmed that he had produced, written, and composed Another Day; he stated that although he did not leak the song, he would like to have the full version of the song—in which he also features—officially released. Shortly after the leak, both Jackson's estate and record label, Sony Music Entertainment, revealed that they were in the process of removing Another Day from the Internet for copyright reasons. Despite successful attempts, the song has continued to be re-uploaded to the Internet and listened to thousands of times. Another Day is the second Jackson track to be posthumously leaked, as it follows A Place With No Name, which was unofficially released in July 2009.
Michael Joseph Jackson  The Definitive Collection (Michael Jackson album)  The Definitive Collection is a compilation album by Michael Jackson.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Baby Be Mine (Michael Jackson song)  Baby Be Mine is a song by American musician Michael Jackson. It was released on November 30, 1982 as part of Jackson's Thriller album. It was written by Rod Temperton, and is a dance pop/pop song, the second track on the album.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Mind Is The Magic: Anthem For The Las Vegas Show  Mind Is The Magic: Anthem For The Las Vegas Show is a Compilation album by Siegfried &amp; Roy, including a Michael Jackson song titled Mind is the Magic. The album released on July 10, 2009 by German record label - ZYX Music in Europe.
Michael W. Smith  Worship Again  Worship Again is Michael W. Smith's seventeenth album. This is Smith's second album of worship music. The album was recorded live in 2002 at Southeast Christian Church in Louisville, Kentucky before a live audience.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Worship Again  Worship Again is Michael W. Smith's seventeenth album. This is Smith's second album of worship music. The album was recorded live in 2002 at Southeast Christian Church in Louisville, Kentucky before a live audience.
Michael W. Smith  Healing Rain  Healing Rain is Michael W. Smith's nineteenth album.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Healing Rain  Healing Rain is Michael W. Smith's nineteenth album.
Michael W. Smith  Worship (album)  Worship is Michael W. Smith's sixteenth album. This is Smith's first album of contemporary worship music.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Worship (album)  Worship is Michael W. Smith's sixteenth album. This is Smith's first album of contemporary worship music.
Michael W. Smith  The Michael W. Smith Project  The Michael W. Smith Project is the debut album by Michael W. Smith, released in 1983. It was re-released in CD format in 1987 with a new cover featuring an updated photo of Smith.
Michael Whitaker Smith  The Michael W. Smith Project  The Michael W. Smith Project is the debut album by Michael W. Smith, released in 1983. It was re-released in CD format in 1987 with a new cover featuring an updated photo of Smith.
Michael W. Smith  Michael W. Smith 2  Michael W. Smith 2 (also known simply as 2) is the second album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith, released in 1984. It spawned the CCM hits I Am Sure and Hosanna, although neither of these songs had the lasting impact of Friends from The Michael W. Smith Project album. Michael W. Smith gained popularity as the keyboard player for CCM Artis Amy Grant. His first album, The Michael W Smith Project contained the single Friends which received significant airplay. I Am Sure was the biggest single off of MWS 2. MWS 2, as well as many of his other projects, were noteworthy for the collection of musicians who played along with him. On this album, were Dann Huff and Mike Brignardello, who went on to form the metal band Giant. Huff was also one of the founding members, along with his brother David, of the CCM band White Heart.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Michael W. Smith 2  Michael W. Smith 2 (also known simply as 2) is the second album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith, released in 1984. It spawned the CCM hits I Am Sure and Hosanna, although neither of these songs had the lasting impact of Friends from The Michael W. Smith Project album. Michael W. Smith gained popularity as the keyboard player for CCM Artis Amy Grant. His first album, The Michael W Smith Project contained the single Friends which received significant airplay. I Am Sure was the biggest single off of MWS 2. MWS 2, as well as many of his other projects, were noteworthy for the collection of musicians who played along with him. On this album, were Dann Huff and Mike Brignardello, who went on to form the metal band Giant. Huff was also one of the founding members, along with his brother David, of the CCM band White Heart.
Michael W. Smith  The Big Picture (Michael W. Smith album)  The Big Picture is the third album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith, released in 1986. The title comes from Pursuit of the Dream, in which it's heard a few times, but also applies to the variety of themes for young people to learn about from the songs. That track instructs on pursuing goals, and other themes include the folly of escapism (Lamu), sexual abstinence before marriage (Old Enough to Know), and maintaining a positive self image (You're Alright).
Michael Whitaker Smith  The Big Picture (Michael W. Smith album)  The Big Picture is the third album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith, released in 1986. The title comes from Pursuit of the Dream, in which it's heard a few times, but also applies to the variety of themes for young people to learn about from the songs. That track instructs on pursuing goals, and other themes include the folly of escapism (Lamu), sexual abstinence before marriage (Old Enough to Know), and maintaining a positive self image (You're Alright).
Michael W. Smith  The Live Set  's first live album highlights selections from his previous album The Big Picture. It also features three songs (two on the LP) from his debut The Michael W. Smith Project and three new songs, but none from Michael W. Smith 2. The band included numerous Christian music stalwarts of the late 1980s, including Wayne Kirkpatrick, Chris Rodriguez, and Chris Harris. A video version of the concert was also available commercially.
Michael Whitaker Smith  The Live Set  's first live album highlights selections from his previous album The Big Picture. It also features three songs (two on the LP) from his debut The Michael W. Smith Project and three new songs, but none from Michael W. Smith 2. The band included numerous Christian music stalwarts of the late 1980s, including Wayne Kirkpatrick, Chris Rodriguez, and Chris Harris. A video version of the concert was also available commercially.
Michael W. Smith  I 2 (EYE)  I 2 Eye was Michael W. Smith's first Platinum album.
Michael Whitaker Smith  I 2 (EYE)  I 2 Eye was Michael W. Smith's first Platinum album.
Michael W. Smith  Christmas (Michael W. Smith album)  Christmas is the 1989 Michael W. Smith studio album.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Christmas (Michael W. Smith album)  Christmas is the 1989 Michael W. Smith studio album.
Michael W. Smith  Go West Young Man  released his sixth studio album, Go West Young Man.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Go West Young Man  released his sixth studio album, Go West Young Man.
Michael W. Smith  Change Your World (Michael W. Smith album)  Change Your World is a 1992 album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Change Your World (Michael W. Smith album)  Change Your World is a 1992 album by CCM artist Michael W. Smith.
Michael W. Smith  The First Decade (1983–1993)  The First Decade (1983-1993) is a compilation album from Christian recording artist Michael W. Smith. This album also features 2 new tracks Do You Dream of Me? and Kentucky Rose. Missing from this album was a hit song from Go West Young Man called For You.
Michael Whitaker Smith  The First Decade (1983–1993)  The First Decade (1983-1993) is a compilation album from Christian recording artist Michael W. Smith. This album also features 2 new tracks Do You Dream of Me? and Kentucky Rose. Missing from this album was a hit song from Go West Young Man called For You.
Michael W. Smith  I'll Lead You Home  I'll Lead You Home is a 1995 album by Michael W. Smith.
Michael Whitaker Smith  I'll Lead You Home  I'll Lead You Home is a 1995 album by Michael W. Smith.
Michael W. Smith  Live the Life  Live the Life is an album by Michael W. Smith. One notable song on this album was In My Arms Again, which Michael W. Smith wrote for the film Titanic. There were 26 songs written and completed for the album, whose release date was pushed back twice as Smith wasn't fully satisfied with the tracklist. Along with the 12 songs which eventually made it on the album, the tracks Greater Than We Understand and Evening Show were released on the B-sides of the CD singles for Life the Live and Love Me Good respectively. A few of the remaining 12 songs appeared in some form on Smith's 1999 album This Is Your Time. Song for Rich is an instrumental tribute to Rich Mullins who died in a car accident in September 1997.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Live the Life  Live the Life is an album by Michael W. Smith. One notable song on this album was In My Arms Again, which Michael W. Smith wrote for the film Titanic. There were 26 songs written and completed for the album, whose release date was pushed back twice as Smith wasn't fully satisfied with the tracklist. Along with the 12 songs which eventually made it on the album, the tracks Greater Than We Understand and Evening Show were released on the B-sides of the CD singles for Life the Live and Love Me Good respectively. A few of the remaining 12 songs appeared in some form on Smith's 1999 album This Is Your Time. Song for Rich is an instrumental tribute to Rich Mullins who died in a car accident in September 1997.
Michael W. Smith  This Is Your Time  This Is Your Time is Michael W. Smith's fourteenth studio album, released in 1999.
Michael Whitaker Smith  This Is Your Time  This Is Your Time is Michael W. Smith's fourteenth studio album, released in 1999.
Michael W. Smith  Freedom (Michael W. Smith album)  Freedom is Michael W. Smith's fifteenth album. This is Smith's first album of instrumental music.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Freedom (Michael W. Smith album)  Freedom is Michael W. Smith's fifteenth album. This is Smith's first album of instrumental music.
Michael W. Smith  Stand (album)  Stand is Michael W. Smith's twentieth album.
Michael Whitaker Smith  Stand (album)  Stand is Michael W. Smith's twentieth album.
Michael W. Smith  It's a Wonderful Christmas  It's a Wonderful Christmas is Michael W. Smith's twenty-first album. This is Smith's third album of Christmas music.
Michael Whitaker Smith  It's a Wonderful Christmas  It's a Wonderful Christmas is Michael W. Smith's twenty-first album. This is Smith's third album of Christmas music.
Michael W. Smith  The Wonder Years (Michael W. Smith box set)  The Wonder Years 1983-1993 book/2-CD package was released by Reunion Records in 1993, and intended to be a greatest hits/career overview album. The elaborate slipcase packaging contained a tall spiral-bound book (10.5x6) that contained facing pairs of pages highlighting each of his (at the time) 8 albums. Each spread featured photographs and an accompanying background story on this period in his career. Inside the back cover are 2 trays which contain the 2 picture CDs. This album has since gone out of print in favor of the more modest (and more focused) greatest hits collection The First Decade (1983-1993), which was released later that same year. This album is also notable to collectors for being the only issued CD containing the radio single version of I Know from The Live Set.
Michael Whitaker Smith  The Wonder Years (Michael W. Smith box set)  The Wonder Years 1983-1993 book/2-CD package was released by Reunion Records in 1993, and intended to be a greatest hits/career overview album. The elaborate slipcase packaging contained a tall spiral-bound book (10.5x6) that contained facing pairs of pages highlighting each of his (at the time) 8 albums. Each spread featured photographs and an accompanying background story on this period in his career. Inside the back cover are 2 trays which contain the 2 picture CDs. This album has since gone out of print in favor of the more modest (and more focused) greatest hits collection The First Decade (1983-1993), which was released later that same year. This album is also notable to collectors for being the only issued CD containing the radio single version of I Know from The Live Set.
Michael W. Smith  A New Hallelujah  A New Hallelujah is Michael W. Smith's twenty-second album. This is his third album of worship music, and his fourth live album overall. This album was recorded in Lakewood Church, Houston, Texas.
Michael Whitaker Smith  A New Hallelujah  A New Hallelujah is Michael W. Smith's twenty-second album. This is his third album of worship music, and his fourth live album overall. This album was recorded in Lakewood Church, Houston, Texas.
Michael W. Smith  The Second Decade (album)  The Second Decade is Michael W. Smith's eighteenth album. This is Smith's second greatest hits compilation album covering the years 1993–2003. His first greatest hits compilation The First Decade covered the years 1983–1993.
Michael Whitaker Smith  The Second Decade (album)  The Second Decade is Michael W. Smith's eighteenth album. This is Smith's second greatest hits compilation album covering the years 1993–2003. His first greatest hits compilation The First Decade covered the years 1983–1993.
Nancy Sinatra  This Town (Frank Sinatra song)  This Town is the title of a song written by Lee Hazelwood and recorded by Frank Sinatra in 1967. The song first appeared on Sinatra's 1967 album The World We Knew and also on his 1969 Greatest Hits album. A popular song, it has been used in films such as Matchstick Men, From Paris With Love, and Ocean's Thirteen. The song was featured in the 1967 television special, Movin' With Nancy, starring Nancy Sinatra. The special was released to home video in 2000.
Nancy Sinatra  Woman (Nancy Sinatra album)  Woman is a studio album by Nancy Sinatra, released in 1972.
Nancy Sinatra  Nancy Sinatra (album)  Nancy Sinatra is an album by Nancy Sinatra. It was released in 2004 on Attack Records.
Nancy Sinatra  Boots (album)  Boots is a 1966 studio album by Nancy Sinatra. Billy Strange was the arranger and conductor.
Nancy Sinatra  How Does That Grab You?  How Does That Grab You? is Nancy Sinatra's second studio album, released in 1966. The track, How Does That Grab You, Darlin?, reached number seven on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart in April 1966.
Nancy Sinatra  I Gotta Get Out of This Town  I gotta Get Out of this Town was a 1966 song performed by American singer Nancy Sinatra, the daughter of Frank Sinatra. It was the opening song and in the 1967 TV special: Movin' With Nancy, starring Nancy Sinatra, released to home video in 2000. .
Nancy Sinatra  Friday's Child (1965 song)  Friday's Child is a 1965 song by Lee Hazlewood performed by American singer Nancy Sinatra, the daughter of Frank Sinatra. It was featured in the 1967 TV special: Movin' With Nancy, starring Nancy Sinatra, released to home video in 2000. .
Nancy Sinatra  The Very Best Of: 24 Great Songs  The Very Best Of: 24 Great Songs is a 2001 compilation album by Nancy Sinatra.
Nancy Sinatra  Movin' with Nancy (album)  Movin' With Nancy is the soundtrack to Nancy Sinatra's 1967 television special of the same name. It is notable for the inclusion of the hit single Some Velvet Morning, a song composed by and performed with Lee Hazlewood. The album was arranged and conducted by Billy Strange.
Natalie Imbruglia  White Lilies Island  White Lilies Island is the second album by Natalie Imbruglia. It was released in Europe and Australia in late 2001 and in the United States on 5 March 2002. The name of this album comes from the location of Imbruglia's home in Windsor.
Natalie Imbruglia  Left of the Middle  Left of the Middle is the first album by Australian singer Natalie Imbruglia. Released in 1997, the album was a worldwide hit. Spurred by the success of lead single Torn, the album reached number 1 in her home country and the top 10 in both the UK and US. The album went on to secure Imbruglia three Grammy nominations, Best Pop Vocal Album, Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for the lead single Torn, and Best New Artist.
Natalie Imbruglia  Counting Down the Days  Counting Down the Days is the third studio album by Australian singer Natalie Imbruglia released by Brightside Recordings in the United Kingdom on April 4, 2005. The album included the two singles Shiver and Counting Down the Days. The album entered the United Kingdom
Natalie Imbruglia  Glorious: The Singles 1997–2007  Glorious: The Singles 97-07 is a compilation album by Australian singer-songwriter Natalie Imbruglia, celebrating ten years since the release of her first album Left of the Middle. It was released on 10 September, 2007, in the United Kingdom and on 22 September, 2007, in Australia. The album consists of all nine singles released from Imbruglia's past three studio albums as well as five new songs including the single Glorious. A limited edition version includes a bonus DVD of Imbruglia's music videos. The album peaked at number 5 on the UK album charts. It was certified Gold in the United Kingdom on 12 October, 2007.
Natalie Imbruglia  Live from London (Natalie Imbruglia EP)  Live from London is a digital EP by Australian pop singer Natalie Imbruglia, available exclusively through the iTunes store as part of the Live from London series. It was released on August 17, 2007, through Brightside Recordings. The EP contains five live acoustic versions of hits from her singles collection Glorious: The Singles 1997-2007.
Natalie Imbruglia  Come to Life  Come to Life is the fourth studio album by Australian singer-songwriter Natalie Imbruglia and is her first on her own label, Malabar Records. It was released on Island Records on October 2, 2009 in Australia. The physical UK release and promotion has been delayed so that Imbruglia can concentrate on her duties with the Australian version of the The X Factor franchise.
Ne-Yo  In My Own Words  In My Own Words is the debut album from American singer-songwriter Ne-Yo, released on February 28, 2006. Four singles were released from the album, Stay, So Sick, When You're Mad, and Sexy Love. The first single, Stay, was not as successful is its successors, being Ne-Yo's only song so far to not chart on the Billboard Hot 100. The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 with 301,000 copies sold. Ne-Yo went on tour in August 2006 with Chris Brown and Dem Franchize Boyz. The album was subsequently certified platinum with 1.6 million copies sold in the U.S. , and 2 million copies sold worldwide. Upon its release, the album received generally positive reviews from most music critics, based on an aggregate score of 69/100 from Metacritic.
Ne-Yo  Because of You (Ne-Yo album)  Because of You is the second studio album by American R&amp;B and pop singer-songwriter Ne-Yo, released May 8, 2007 on Def Jam Recordings in the United States. It features guest contributions from rapper Jay-Z on Crazy and singer Jennifer Hudson on Leaving Tonight. Because of You debuted at number 1 on the Billboard 200 and Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums charts, selling over 250,000 copies in its first week. Upon its release, the album received generally positive reviews from most music critics, based on an aggregate score of 74/100 from Metacritic. It won a Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&amp;B Album at the 2008 Grammy Awards.
Ne-Yo  Year of the Gentleman  Year of the Gentleman is the third studio album by American R&amp;B and pop singer-songwriter Ne-Yo, released September 16, 2008 on Def Jam Recordings in the United States. The album was met with generally favorable reviews from most music critics, as well as a considerable amount of commercial success and sales.
Ne-Yo  Ne-Yo: The Collection  Ne-Yo: The Collection is the first compilation album by American singer-songwriter Ne-Yo. The album was released in Japan on September 2, 2009. The album was also released with a limited edition CD+DVD version complete with the music videos from each of Ne-Yo's singles under the title Ne-Yo: The Collection - Complete Edition.
Ne-Yo  Libra Scale  Libra Scale is the upcoming fourth studio album by American singer-songwriter Ne-Yo. It is set to be released October 27, 2010.
Neil Sedaka  The Hungry Years  The Hungry Years is an album by Neil Sedaka, the title of which also refers to the title song of the album. It was released on the Rocket Records label in 1975. The album is the American edition of Overnight Success, with two songs being replaced. Bad Blood, a duet with Elton John, hit No.1 on the Billboard Singles Chart, while his remake of Breaking Up Is Hard to Do reached No.8 in December, 1975. The Queen of 1964, from his British-released Overnight Success album, reached #5 in the UK in March 1975.
Neil Sedaka  Live at the Royal Festival Hall  The album Live at Royal Festival Hall by Neil Sedaka was released on the Polydor Records label in 1974.
Neil Sedaka  Solitaire (album)  Solitaire is a 1972 album by American singer-songwriter Neil Sedaka. The album, released after a successful English tour in early 1972, marked the comeback of Sedaka after a 10-year absence from the charts. Two singles were lifted from the album, Beautiful You (UK No. 43) and That's When the Music Takes Me (UK No. 18; US No. 27). The album's title track, Solitaire, later became a hit single for Andy Williams (1973) and The Carpenters (1975). The album was produced at Strawberry Studios in Stockport, England, with the musical support of Graham Gouldman, Lol Creme and Kevin Godley who &ndash; together with the album's recording engineer Eric Stewart &ndash; would shortly become the successful pop band 10cc. Sedaka opted to record at Strawberry after meeting Gouldman in New York and discovering his association with Stewart, Godley and Creme. The trio had recorded the single Umbopo, which Sedaka liked, under the band name of Doctor Father. His work there became pivotal in the musician's decision to forge their own career as a band. Gouldman recalled: It was Neil Sedaka's success that did it, I think. We'd just been accepting any job we were offered and were getting really frustrated. We knew that we were worth more than that, but it needed something to prod us into facing that. We were a bit choked to think that we'd done the whole of Neil's first album with him just for flat session fees when we could have been recording our own material.  Sedaka recorded one more album with the band members. The track Better Days Are Coming was reworked by Sedaka as the Japanese opening theme for the 1985 anime series Mobile Suit Zeta Gundam. The revised song became Zeta - Toki wo Koete (literally Zeta - Beyond Time).
Neil Sedaka  The Tra-La Days Are Over  The Tra-La Days Are Over is a 1973 album by American singer-songwriter Neil Sedaka. The album was the second to be produced at Strawberry Studios in England in collaboration with Graham Gouldman, Lol Creme, Kevin Godley and Eric Stewart, who had formed the band 10cc since their first joint venture with Sedaka on Solitaire (1972). The album, which consolidated his return to popularity after his lengthy absence from the charts, yielded two hit singles for Sedaka, Standing on the Inside (UK No.26, June 1973) and Our Last Song Together (UK No.31, August 1973). The latter track commemorates the ending of his partnership with lyricist Howard Greenfield; the album title is taken from a line in this song. Another song, Love Will Keep Us Together, became a US No.1 for Captain &amp; Tennille in 1975. Their version peaked at No.32 in Britain. The Captain &amp; Tennille acknowledged Sedaka's authorship as well as his early-1970s comeback by working the phrase Sedaka is back into the song's fadeout. On the liner notes to The Tra-La Days Are Over Sedaka added the dedication: Thanks to Mike Curb for letting me have my way.
Neil Sedaka  Sedaka's Back  Sedaka's Back is an album by American singer-songwriter Neil Sedaka. The record, a compilation of his last three albums, which had been released only in the UK, was released on Elton John's Rocket Records label in 1974. Three singles were released from this album: Laughter In The Rain (a #1 hit), The Immigrant (dedicated to John Lennon) and That's Where The Music Takes Me.  The latter two songs were both Top 40 hits. Also included were songs that were turned into hits by other artists: Solitaire (The Carpenters) and Love Will Keep Us Together (The Captain &amp; Tennille). The album reached No. 23 on the US Billboard album charts and earned a gold disc for half a million sales.
Neil Sedaka  Rock with Sedaka  Rock with Neil Sedaka or just Neil Sadaka is the first major solo album of Neil Sedaka released in 1959 after two 1958 albums under the titles Neil Sedaka and The Tokens and Neil Sedaka and The Tokens and Coins. The album was released on RCA and was produced by Al Nevins. The album contains 12 songs all of them co-written by Neil Sedaka and his friend Howard Greenfield. Two of the songs became successful singles for Neil Sedaka from the album, namely The Diary, his debut single that was a hit reaching #14 in US Billboard charts, and I Go Ape, a single that was relatively successful in the US reaching #42, but did far better in the UK Singles Chart making it up to #9 and his debut single in Britain.
Neil Sedaka  Circulate  Circulate was the second solo album of Neil Sedaka after his 1959 debut solo album Rock with Sedaka. Circulate was released in 1961 on RCA and was produced by Al Nevins and Don Kirshner. Except for the title song Circulate and I Found My World In You, the whole album contains covers of the 1930s, 1940s and 1950s songs as interpreted by Sedaka. Two of the songs were re-issued as B-sides of other hits: I Found My World In You was the B-side of Sweet Little You later in 1961, and Circulate was the B-side of Alice In Wonderland in 1963.
Neil Sedaka  Neil Sedaka Sings Little Devil and His Other Hits  Neil Sedaka Sings Little Devil and His Other Hits is a solo album by Neil Sedaka released in 1961 immediately after the cover versions of earlier hits in Circulate.
Neil Sedaka  Neil Sedaka Sings His Greatest Hits  Neil Sedaka Sings His Greatest Hits is a compilation of twelve of the most popular hits of Neil Sedaka's tenure with RCA Victor Records.
Neil Sedaka  Three Great Guys  Three Great Guys is a joint album by three great artists Paul Anka, Sam Cooke and Neil Sedaka. It was released in 1963 and included 12 songs with 4 songs from each of the three artists and a collaboration on the last Neil Sedaka track by Stan Applebaum and His Orchestra
Nelly Furtado  Whoa, Nelly!  Whoa, Nelly! is the debut album by Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It was released in North America on October 24, 2000 by DreamWorks Records. It peaked at number twenty-four on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, and opened to critical acclaim. It produced three international singles: I'm like a Bird, Turn Off the Light and ... On the Radio (Remember the Days). Party's Just Begun (Again) was a club-only single released exclusively in the U.S. before the album's availability in stores, and it was included on the soundtrack of the 1999 film Brokedown Palace. When Party's Just Begun (Again) was released, Nelly's label was unsure about the genre in which to market her. They eventually remixed Party's Just Begun (Again) and included it upon this album as Party. The DreamWorks label released Trynna Finda Way as the fourth single in Mexico and South America, a radio remix of Hey, Man! in the UK and Germany, and Legend in South Africa. The album spent seventy-eight weeks on the Billboard 200. It hit double-platinum status in the U.S. in January 2002. After the release of the album, Furtado headlined the Burn in the Spotlight tour and appeared on Moby's Area:One tour. According to Maclean's magazine, Whoa, Nelly! had sold six million copies worldwide as of August 2006.
Nelly Furtado  Folklore (Nelly Furtado album)  Folklore is the second album by Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It was released in North America on November 25, 2003 by DreamWorks Records.
Nelly Furtado  Loose (Nelly Furtado album)  Loose is the third studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It was released in North America on June 20, 2006 by Geffen Records. Timbaland and his then-protégé Danja produced the bulk of the album, which incorporates influences of dance, R&amp;B and hip hop. The album explores the theme of female sexuality and has been described as introspective or even sad in parts. The album received criticism because of the sexual image Furtado adopted for the recording, but some critics felt it was a ploy to sell more records. Further controversy rose over accusations of plagiarism on Timbaland's part when recordings were leaked onto YouTube. The record was seen generally as critically and commercially successful. It reached high positions on charts across the world, and according to a August 2009 press release, it had sold more than 10 million copies worldwide, making it the best-selling album of 2006-2007 and the twenty-second best-selling album of the 2000s. The album was heavily promoted, released in several editions and supported by the Get Loose Tour, which is the subject of the concert DVD Loose: The Concert. Eight singles were released from the album, including the U.S. number-one singles Promiscuous and Say It Right, which received Grammy Award nominations for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, respectively. Other standout singles include the UK number-one single Maneater and the successful song All Good Things (Come to an End).
Nelly Furtado  Loose: The Concert  Loose: The Concert is the first live DVD from the Canadian pop singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. It is a recording of Nelly Furtado's live performance at the Air Canada Centre, in Toronto, Canada, on April 4, 2007. The DVD and accompanying CD was released by Festival Mushroom and Warner Bros. on November 16, 2007 in Italy and Germany, November 19, 2007 in United Kingdom and on November 20, 2007 in United States. The set includes all Furtado's hit singles and live versions from her third studio album Loose starting with her first single Promiscuous to Do It, and almost everything in between, combined with her singles from her previous studio albums Whoa, Nelly! and Folklore such as I'm like a Bird, Turn Off the Light, Força and Powerless (Say What You Want). The DVD is also known as Loose Live. This DVD showcases Nelly's homecoming Toronto show, the culmination of the massive Loose world tour which covered five continents. Nelly Furtado also stated on the promotional video of Loose: The Concert that she would perform about 10 singles from the album Loose. A live CD was released with the DVD, in Mexico the CD and DVD were released separately.
Nelly Furtado  Loose Mini DVD  Loose Mini DVD is the first DVD from the Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. The DVD was released by Universal Music Group on August 22, 2007 and it was only released in Germany. The DVD features five of Nelly Furtado's music videos from her 2006 third studio album Loose such as the hit singles Promiscuous, Maneater, All Good Things (Come to an End) and Say It Right with one video from her previous second studio album Folklore, combined with behind-the-scenes footage of shoots for her music video Say It Right which was directed by British duo Rankin &amp; Chris and includes an exclusive premier for Nelly Furtado's seventh single music video from Loose In God's Hands which was directed by Jesse Dylan.
Nelly Furtado  Live Session (iTunes Exclusive) (Nelly Furtado EP)  Live Session (iTunes Exclusive) is a live EP by Canadian pop singer Nelly furtado. It was released on September 26, 2006, three months after the release of Furtado's third studio album Loose. The EP was released online as a digital download in the U.S. and Australia only.
Nelly Furtado  Sessions@AOL (Nelly Furtado EP)  Sessions@AOL is a live EP by Canadian pop singer Nelly Furtado. It was released on March 30, 2004 online as a digital download Worldwide.
Nelly Furtado  Edicion Limitada en Español  Edicion Limitada en Español is the second EP by Canadian pop singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. The EP contains four tracks, three in Spanish and the last being in English.
Nelly Furtado  Mi Plan  Mi Plan is the first full-length Spanish album by Portuguese-Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado, and her fourth studio album overall. It was released on September 15, 2009.
Nelly Furtado  The Best of Nelly Furtado  The Best of Nelly Furtado is an upcoming greatest hits from album Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado. The album is due for release on November 15, 2010, in the UK, with a worldwide release set for the following day, November 16. The album will include all of Furtado's biggest hits, as well as three new songs: Night Is Young, Stars, and Girlfriend. The album will be available in both Standard and Deluxe Editions which will include 2 CDs plus a DVD with the music videos The lead single from the release, Night Is Young, premiered on BBC Radio 1 on October 3, 2010.
Nick Carter  Before the Backstreet Boys 1989–1993  BEFORE The Backstreet Boys 1989 - 1993 is the unofficial, independently-released demo album released by Backstreet Boys member Nick Carter. The songs were recorded by Nick as a youngster from 1989 to 1993. The song, Hard To Get was written by Mark J. Dye for Carter and his former singer partner, Malia Tuaileva. Tuaileva appears in a duet on the album and singing solo on the album with the track, Mansion In Malibu.
Patti LaBelle  Patti LaBelle (album)  Patti LaBelle is the debut solo album for singer Patti LaBelle, released in the fall of 1977. The album is notable for not only the singer's covers of The Skyliners' Since I Don't Have You, Edwin Starr's Funky Music Sho Nuff Turns Me On, and Bob Dylan's Most Likely You'll Go Your Way and I'll Go Mine, but also for her first couple of solo hits, the disco/funk-flavored Joy to Have Your Love and the gospel ballad You Are My Friend.
Patti LaBelle  Winner in You  Winner in You is the name of the eighth solo album by singer Patti LaBelle. The album is LaBelle's most successful album thus far of her career, reaching number one on the American Billboard album charts in 1986 and going platinum in the United States. The album features the Billboard Hot 100 number one single, On My Own, a duet with blue-eyed soul singer Michael McDonald. It marked the singer's full transition from a funk and soul artist to a pop star after releasing the star-turned hits New Attitude and Stir It Up. To this day it remains LaBelle's only release to go platinum though she went on to have several releases reach gold status continuing her ascent as a contemporary R&amp;B superstar.
Patti LaBelle  The Gospel According to Patti LaBelle  The Gospel According To Patti LaBelle is the first gospel act since the release of Going Home To Gospel With Patti LaBelle featuring gospel music queen Albertina Walker in 1991 from the esteemed R&amp;B veteran Patti LaBelle. This project began three years ago when Patti's late musical director and close friend Budd Ellison told a skeptical LaBelle that it's now or never, Patti.  The album is dedicated to his memory as he succumbed to prostate cancer before the album saw a release. The album was released on November 21, 2006 through indie label Umbrella/Bungalow Records, also home to Carl Thomas, Rodney Jerkins, and other artists. The Gospel According To Patti LaBelle features collaborations with Yolanda Adams, Mary Mary, Kanye West, Wynonna Judd, The Soul Seekers, Tye Tribbett, CeCe Winans and more. Production duties were handled by Gordon Chambers (who produced Patti's hit duet with Ron Isley, Gotta Go Solo), J. Moss, Scott Shavoni Parker, Troy Taylor, Gerald Haddon, Jon DeLise (also produced on Patti's Timeless Journey's Two Steps Away) and others. The Gospel According To Patti LaBelle debuted on the U.S. Billboard 200
Patti LaBelle  I'm in Love Again  I'm in Love Again is a 1983 album from Patti LaBelle, her second album on Philadelphia International Records after her departure from Epic Records (at the time, Philadelphia International issued its records through Epic's parent company CBS Records). The album's original 1983 release was issued on vinyl record and cassette tape. I'm in Love Again was released on CD on June 15, 1993. The album is credited with reviving LaBelle's career seven years after splitting from Labelle.
Patti LaBelle  Burnin' (Patti LaBelle album)  Burnin' is a 1991 album by Patti LaBelle. It won the category of Best Female R&amp;B Vocal Performance at the Grammy Awards of 1992 jointly with a single by Lisa Fischer, an unusual event in the history of the grammy awards. The album features several prominent all-star collaborations, including duets with Gladys Knight (I Don't Do Duets) and Michael Bolton (We're Not Making Love Anymore) and a reunion track with Nona Hendryx and Sarah Dash from Labelle (Release Yourself), as well as three Billboard top 5 R&amp;B hits: Feels Like Another One, Somebody Loves You Baby (You Know Who It Is) and When You've Been Blessed (Feels Like Heaven). The album track Temptation was written by Cuban-American singer Martika, who originally released it on her album Martika's Kitchen. Burnin', released as CD, LP, cassette and DCC (Digital cassette tape), has been certified gold in the United States by the RIAA for sales in excess of 500,000 copies. It reached #71 on the Billboard 200 and #13 on the R&amp;B album charts. The last track, Crazy Love, was not included in all formats. The following year, LaBelle released her first solo live album, simply titled Live!, featuring several songs from Burnin' as it was recorded during this album's promotional tour. However, despite being related to Burnin' for that reason, Live! also features several songs from her past catalogue, two brand new studio songs and two covers of pop standards.
Patti LaBelle  Tasty (Patti LaBelle album)  Tasty is the sophomore solo release by singer Patti LaBelle, her second solo album with Epic Records, since departing from Labelle in 1976. The album was less successful than the debut but became notable for the disco club hit, Eyes in the Back of My Head and the airplay-only ballad, Little Girls, which became a popular LaBelle favorite with her fans. The album was one of four LaBelle released on the Epic label. The mid-tempo song Don't Let Go was later covered successfully by Isaac Hayes a year later. The gospel-emulated ballad I See Home was covered by Tina Turner on her album, Love Explosion, a year after this album was released. LaBelle also co-wrote two songs on the album, the Latin soul-flavored Teach Me Tonight and the gospel-like Quiet Time. Her longtime musical director Bud Ellison also helped in those songs' arrangements. The up-tempo funky disco song, Eyes in the Back of My Head found some international success reaching number-five on the Italian singles chart.
Patti LaBelle  It's Alright with Me  For the popular song, see It's All Right with Me. It's Alright with Me is the third solo album released by singer Patti LaBelle, her third off her deal with Epic Records released in 1979. After a modestly successful solo debut and a critically acclaimed but commercially maligned sophomore release, LaBelle worked on her third Epic release with renowned producer Skip Scarborough. Despite some potential, much like her previous releases, the album failed to gain an audience. Two years and an album later, LaBelle left Epic for her hometown's renowned label Philadelphia International. The notable tracks on the album were the disco-like Music is My Way of Life and the ballad Come What May.
Patti LaBelle  Released (Patti LaBelle album)  Released is the fourth studio solo album released by singer Patti LaBelle. Released in late 1980, the album was produced by legendary New Orleans producer Allen Toussaint, who had worked with LaBelle during her tenure in Labelle, working on the band's popular albums, Nightbirds and Phoenix. The album was notable for the international disco hit, Release (The Tension) and the top thirty R&amp;B charted doo-wopish I Don't Go Shopping. Despite some success, the album barely charted and LaBelle left Epic Records shortly after the album's release.
Patti LaBelle  The Spirit's in It  The Spirit's in It is a 1981 album released by singer Patti LaBelle. The album was her first release off Philadelphia International Records after coming off a seven-year contract with Epic Records and four studio albums. Her fifth release is notable for the title track, which became a disco hit, and for her solo cover of Judy Garland's Over the Rainbow, which she had recorded in the mid-1960s as a member of Patti LaBelle and the Blue Belles. This version has become one of her signature songs.
Patti LaBelle  Patti (album)  Patti is an album released by singer Patti LaBelle, her third and final release from the Philadelphia International Records label. The album, though not featuring LaBelle's soundtrack smashes, New Attitude and Stir It Up, does feature LaBelle's interpretation of Look to the Rainbow, a song LaBelle made part of her concert set-list during the '80s, and her live cover of Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes' If You Don't Know Me by Now, which she confessed later that she was giving the song to do by Gamble &amp; Huff during her Labelle days though it was noted the group's schedule made it impossible for them to record it. LaBelle has since performed the song in her concerts. Her version peaked at number 79 on the R&amp;B chart. The ballad, I Can't Forget You peaked at number 63 on the R&amp;B chart.
Patti LaBelle  Be Yourself (Patti LaBelle album)  Be Yourself marked Patti LaBelle's ninth solo album and her first since 1986's platinum hit, Winner in You, released in 1989 on the MCA label, her second album with the company. The album featured the popular singles, If You Asked Me To, which was also featured on the James Bond soundtrack to the movie, Licence to Kill and the top ten Prince-written socially conscious dance hit, Yo Mister. The album also featured the modest R&amp;B hit, I Can't Complain, which charted in 1990.
Patti LaBelle  Gems (Patti LaBelle album)  Gems is the eleventh studio solo album (and thirteenth solo album overall) by American singer Patti LaBelle, released on MCA Records in 1994. The album is notable for the international pop hit, the Ann Nesby co-write, The Right Kinda Lover, which brought LaBelle a new legion of fans thanks to its production by Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis and its catchy video which had LaBelle performing a seductress who chooses the right mate through a machine and if one man rubbed her the wrong way, she'd use a button to get rid of them. The album also features a hip-hop-esque remake of DeBarge's 1983 hit, All This Love, produced by Teddy Riley. The album peaked at number forty-eight on the Billboard Top 200 and went gold with sales shipping past the 500,000 mark.
Patti LaBelle  Flame (album)  Flame is the twelfth studio album for singer Patti LaBelle, released on MCA Records in 1997. Executive produced by LaBelle, the album featured songs from the likes of Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis, who contributed to much of the compositions and productions on the record while other producers including Gerald Levert, Brenda Russell and David Foster were also featured on the album. The album featured the international hit and number-one dance single, When You Talk About Love, and the R&amp;B radio favorite, Shoe Was on the Other Foot. The album was also notable in including the ballad, Don't Block the Blessings, which was the title of LaBelle's best-selling autobiography released a year before Flame. The album went gold by year's end giving the singer her fifth gold album.
Patti LaBelle  When a Woman Loves  When a Woman Loves is the thirteenth solo album released by singer Patti LaBelle, her sixth ever on the MCA Records label. The album is notable for it being released months after LaBelle separated from her husband of 31 years, Armstead Edwards, for most of the songs' solemn tone, and for all of the songs written by Diane Warren. This was the first project LaBelle and Warren had worked on together since working on LaBelle's signature 1989 hit, If You Asked Me To. The album was produced by LaBelle, Warren and Jimmy Jam &amp; Terry Lewis and James Big Jim Wright who produced the album's only single release, Call Me Gone, which failed to chart. The album's title track did get some airplay and the singer performed the ballad during promotion of the record.
Patti LaBelle  Timeless Journey  Timeless Journey is the fourteenth solo studio release by Patti LaBelle and her first release off Def Soul Classics notable for the hit songs New Day and 2 Steps Away. It was also one of her most successful albums reaching number five on the R&amp;B albums chart and hitting the top 20 on the Billboard 200.
Patti LaBelle  Classic Moments  Classic Moments is an album recorded and released by Patti LaBelle, her second full-length release with Island Def Jam's Def Soul Classics imprint, released in 2005.
Paul Anka  Rock Swings  Rock Swings is an album by Paul Anka. Recorded in November 2004 and released on May 31, 2005 in Canada and June 7, 2005 in the United States, it contains swing jazz covers of popular rock and pop songs from the 1980s and 1990s. Reportedly, the Michael Jackson song Billie Jean was slated to be on the album in the recording stages, but Paul Anka could not get through a vocal take without bursting into laughter. The album features 'It's My Life' by Bon Jovi, a song which includes the line Like Frankie said, 'I did it my way' - a tongue-in-cheek reference to the Sinatra classic My Way, the English lyrics to which were written by Anka. After the release of this album, Anka was awarded a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in Toronto. A DVD release of the same name, including live performances of these songs by Anka, was released on December 6, 2005.
Paul Anka  Classic Songs, My Way  Classic Songs, My Way is a 2007 album by Paul Anka. It follows the same formula of his previous album, 2005's Rock Swings.
Paul Anka  Three Great Guys  Three Great Guys is a joint album by three great artists Paul Anka, Sam Cooke and Neil Sedaka. It was released in 1963 and included 12 songs with 4 songs from each of the three artists and a collaboration on the last Neil Sedaka track by Stan Applebaum and His Orchestra
Paul McCartney  Driving Rain  Driving Rain is an album by Paul McCartney, recorded and released in 2001. It is his first studio album since publicly announcing his relationship with former model and anti-land mines activist Heather Mills, whom McCartney would marry in 2002.
Paul McCartney  Run Devil Run  Run Devil Run is a 1999 Paul McCartney album that features covers of both familiar and obscure 1950s rock and roll songs, along with three new McCartney songs written in the same style. As his first project following first wife Linda's death in 1998, McCartney felt the need to get back to his roots and perform some of the music he loved as a teenager. On 14 December 1999, McCartney returned to the Cavern Club stage to play a set publicising the new Run Devil Run album.
Paul McCartney  Band on the Run  Band on the Run is an album by Paul McCartney &amp; Wings, released in 1973. It was McCartney's fifth album since the breakup of The Beatles, and Wings' third album. It became Wings' most successful album and remains the most celebrated of McCartney's post-Beatles albums. It was 1974's top-selling studio album in the UK and Australia, and revitalised McCartney's critical standing. In 2000 Q magazine
Paul McCartney  Ram (album)  Ram is an album by Paul McCartney &amp; Linda McCartney, released in 1971, the only album credited to the pair.
Paul McCartney  McCartney (album)  McCartney is the first solo album by Paul McCartney and was released in 1970. It is notable for the fact that McCartney, a multi-instrumentalist, performed the entire album (all instruments and voices) by himself, except for some backing vocals from his first wife, Linda McCartney. McCartney stated that he played bass, drums, acoustic guitar, lead guitar, piano, Mellotron, organ, toy xylophone, and bow and arrow on the album. Notable, also, is the use of a large number of instrumental tracks.
Paul McCartney  Red Rose Speedway  Red Rose Speedway is Paul McCartney's fourth album release and second Wings album, officially credited to Paul McCartney &amp; Wings upon its 1973 release, after the relatively weak commercial performance of the band's debut Wild Life, which had been credited only to the then-unknown Wings. The album was engineered by Alan Parsons
Paul McCartney  Wingspan: Hits and History  Wingspan: Hits and History is a greatest hits compilation album by Paul McCartney featuring material spanning his first solo album McCartney in 1970 to the 1984 Give My Regards To Broad Street movie soundtrack. This set is officially credited to Paul McCartney, although the bulk of the music included was performed by McCartney's former band Wings. American and British editions of the album vary slightly, as the UK edition contains the studio version of Coming Up, while the U.S. edition contains Coming Up (Live at Glasgow), which had reached number one on the Billboard singles chart. The Japanese version of the album also includes Eat at Home, which had been issued as a 1971 single in the non-English-speaking world, as a bonus cut on the Hits disc.
Paul McCartney  Back in the World  Back in the World (subtitled Live) is a live album by Paul McCartney composed of highlights from his spring 2002 Driving USA tour in the United States in support of McCartney's 2001 release Driving Rain. It was released internationally in 2003, save for North America - where Back in the US saw issue four months earlier in 2002 - to commemorate his first set of concerts in almost ten years. Using most of the musicians that appeared on Driving Rain, McCartney assembled a new live act composed of Rusty Anderson and Brian Ray on guitar, Abe Laboriel Jr. on drums and keyboardist Paul Wickens, who had been on McCartney's last two tours in 1989-1990 and 1993. Although McCartney was promoting Driving Rain, the majority of his shows would be celebrations of his past, with a substantial sampling of McCartney's solo work with and without Wings, but in particular his Beatles hits. And it was with the release of those particular songs on Back in the US in 2002 that sparked one of McCartney's biggest controversies in ages. Despite keeping the famous Lennon-McCartney credit intact on Tripping the Live Fantastic, Unplugged (The Official Bootleg) and Paul is Live, McCartney decided to reverse the credits to McCartney-Lennon much to Yoko Ono's public outcry. Reportedly, McCartney decided to act in response to Ono's recent dropping of his credit from Give Peace A Chance on Lennon Legend: The Very Best of John Lennon in 1997. While there continues to be division among critics and fans over McCartney's move, it is worth noting that John Lennon never publicly objected to the original credit reversal that appeared on 1976's Wings Over America, four years before Lennon's death. Undeterred by Ono's anger, McCartney swapped the credits again on Back in the World in 2003. The main difference between Back in the US and Back in the World is that Vanilla Sky has been dropped from the latter's first disc, while two of the tracks from the second disc (C Moon and the post-9/11 Freedom) have been replaced with four exclusive songs not found on Back in the US: Calico Skies, Michelle, Let 'Em In and She's Leaving Home
Paul McCartney  Flaming Pie  Flaming Pie is an album by Paul McCartney, first released in 1997. His first studio album in over four years, it was mostly recorded following McCartney's involvement in the highly successful The Beatles Anthology project. Quoted in Flaming Pie's liner notes as saying, (Anthology) reminded me of The Beatles' standards and the standards that we reached with the songs. So in a way it was a refresher course that set the framework for this album.
Paul McCartney  A Toot and a Snore in '74  A Toot and a Snore in '74 is a bootleg album of the only known recording session in which John Lennon and Paul McCartney played together after the break-up of The Beatles. Mentioned by Lennon in a 1975 interview, details were brought to light in May Pang's 1983 book, Loving John, and it gained wider prominence when McCartney made reference to the session in a 1997 interview. Discussing with Australian writer Sean Sennett in his Soho office, McCartney claimed the session was hazy... for a number of reasons. The story is corroborated by biographies such as Christopher Sandford's 2006 McCartney.
Paul McCartney  Paul Is Live  Paul Is Live is a live album by Paul McCartney, released in 1993 during his New World Tour in support of the album Off the Ground. Its cover is often used as a counter-argument to the Paul is dead conspiracy theory.
Paul McCartney  Chaos and Creation in the Backyard  Chaos and Creation in the Backyard is an album by Paul McCartney released in 2005. A long time in the making, the set was produced by Radiohead and Beck collaborator Nigel Godrich at George Martin's suggestion. McCartney plays almost all of the instruments similar to his 1970 album McCartney and the 1980 McCartney II. In addition, Chaos And Creation In The Backyard marks the first time since 1984's Give My Regards to Broad Street that McCartney was not involved in producing one of his studio albums. Chaos and Creation in the Backyard was McCartney's last rock album release for longtime label EMI. He signed a deal with Hear Music, owned by Starbucks, in March 2007.
Paul McCartney  Back in the U.S.  Back in the U.S. (subtitled Live 2002) is a double live album by Paul McCartney composed of highlights from his spring 2002 Driving USA Tour in the United States in support of McCartney's 2001 release Driving Rain. It was released with an accompanying DVD to commemorate his first set of concerts in almost ten years. Using most of the musicians that appeared on Driving Rain, McCartney assembled a new live act composed of Rusty Anderson and Brian Ray on guitar, Abe Laboriel Jr. on drums and keyboardist Paul Wickens, who had been on McCartney's last two tours in 1989-1990 and 1993. As of 2010, those four are still with McCartney's live act. Although McCartney was promoting Driving Rain, the majority of his shows would be celebrations of his past, with a substantial sampling of McCartney's solo work with and without Wings, but in particular his Beatles hits. And it was the release of those particular songs on Back in the U.S. that sparked one of McCartney's biggest controversies in ages. Despite keeping the famous Lennon/McCartney credit intact on Tripping the Live Fantastic, Unplugged (The Official Bootleg) and Paul is Live, McCartney decided to reverse the credits to Paul McCartney and John Lennon much to Yoko Ono's public outcry. Reportedly, McCartney decided to act in response to Ono's recent dropping of his credit from Give Peace A Chance on Lennon Legend: The Very Best of John Lennon in 1997. While there continues to be division among critics and fans over McCartney's move, John Lennon never publicly objected to the original credit reversal that appeared on 1976's Wings over America, four years before Lennon's death. Back in the U.S. was an exclusive North American and Japanese release (an international edition with a slight track listing change, entitled Back in the World
Paul McCartney  All the Best!  All the Best! was the second official compilation album of Paul McCartney music, after 1978's Wings Greatest and was released in 1987. The album contained tracks from the beginning of his solo career in 1970 through (on British and Canadian editions) the newly recorded Once Upon a Long Ago.  The track inclusion and running order varied slightly between UK and U.S. editions of All the Best! to reflect the popularity of particular songs in each country. CD and vinyl versions of the British edition also varied, as the time constraints of a single compact disc versus a double-vinyl album led to the elimination of three cuts on the British CD edition. As on Wings Greatest, songs that had originally been credited to Paul and Linda McCartney
Paul McCartney  McCartney II  McCartney II is the third solo album by Paul McCartney, and the first since the formation of Wings in 1971. It was released in 1980, a year before the band's dissolution and while their future lay in limbo. The album is a significant departure for McCartney, as much of the album relies heavily on synthesizers and studio experimentation.
Paul McCartney  Maybe I'm Amazed  Maybe I'm Amazed is a song written by Paul McCartney that was first released on his McCartney album on 17 April 1970. The studio version from the album has never been released as a single. McCartney dedicated the song to his wife, Linda, who had helped him get through the break-up of The Beatles. Later, McCartney's band Wings released a single of a live performance of the song from the band's 1976 tour of America, which became a top-ten hit in the United States.
Paul McCartney  Every Night  Every Night is a song written by Paul McCartney while he was on holiday in Greece, and first released on his McCartney
Paul McCartney  That Would Be Something  That Would Be Something is a song written by Paul McCartney in Scotland, which was first released on his McCartney album on 17 April 1970. McCartney sings and plays acoustic guitar, bass, tom tom and cymbal on this song. Shortly after the McCartney album's release, George Harrison described the album versions of this song and Maybe I'm Amazed as great. That Would Be Something was also released on the 1991 live album Unplugged (The Official Bootleg).
Paul McCartney  Pipes of Peace  Pipes of Peace is an album by Paul McCartney released in 1983. As the follow-up to the popular Tug of War, Pipes of Peace was nearly as successful and the source of more big hits for McCartney.
Paul McCartney  Give My Regards to Broad Street  Give My Regards to Broad Street is the name of a film and soundtrack album, masterminded by Paul McCartney. They were both released in 1984, following the success of McCartney's previous albums Tug of War and Pipes of Peace. The film of Broad Street proved to be a financial disaster, but the soundtrack album sold well. The movie, starring Paul McCartney, was the last film appearance of classical actor Sir Ralph Richardson. The title is a pun on George M. Cohan's classic show tune Give My Regards to Broadway, making reference to London's Broad Street railway station, which closed in 1986. Filming and recording of Broad Street began in November 1982, after Pipes of Peace's completion. Production on the album and film continued until July the following year. In the interim, Pipes of Peace and its singles were released, and the film project was thus scheduled for an Autumn 1984 release once an appropriate amount of time had passed.
Paul McCartney  Press to Play  Press to Play is an album by Paul McCartney released in 1986. It is notable for being his first album of entirely new music since 1983's Pipes of Peace and his first album released internationally by long-time label EMI after a brief alliance with Columbia Records in the United States and Canada. Largely due to its experimental nature, some listeners and critics regard the album as one of McCartney's finest solo efforts, while others regard it as one of his worst.
Paul McCartney  Снова в СССР  Снова в СССР is an album of rock 'n' roll oldies by Paul McCartney originally released in 1988 exclusively in the Soviet Union. With the addition of an extra track, the album was released internationally in 1991. Rhapsody (online music service) praised the album, calling it one of their favorite cover albums.
Paul McCartney  Flowers in the Dirt  Flowers in the Dirt is an album by Paul McCartney, released in 1989. It was considered a major return upon release for McCartney because he was embarking on his first world tour since the Wings Over the World jaunt back in 1975/1976. Flowers in the Dirt was also celebrated due to its musical quality, which earned McCartney his best reviews in years.
Paul McCartney  Tripping the Live Fantastic  Tripping the Live Fantastic is Paul McCartney's first official live album and his first release of concert material since Wings' 1976 Wings over America live package. It was released in 1990 as triple LP, double cassette and double CD.
Paul McCartney  Tripping the Live Fantastic: Highlights!  Tripping the Live Fantastic: Highlights! is an abridged version of the double CD Tripping the Live Fantastic by Paul McCartney. Released in 1990, both packages document McCartney's highly successful Paul McCartney World Tour
Paul McCartney  Unplugged (The Official Bootleg)  Unplugged (The Official Bootleg) is a live unplugged performance by Paul McCartney, recorded and released in 1991. Following the vastness of his world tour recently captured on Tripping the Live Fantastic, McCartney relished the opportunity to strip back his songs and appear on the newly-launched acoustic-only show. Consequently, McCartney was among the first in a long line of artists to release an unplugged album. Unlike other artists who appeared on the acclaimed show with acoustic instruments plugged into amplifiers (producing the sound heard), McCartney's instruments were 100% unplugged. Microphones were carefully placed close to guitars, pianos, etc. to pick up the sound (this can be seen on the album, where a large rectangular microphone can be seen in front of McCartney's acoustic guitar). Using the same line-up that recently backed him (save for Blair Cunningham who had replaced Chris Whitten), McCartney used the opportunity to dust off some of his more rare tracks, including three from his 1970 debut album McCartney, alongside some obscure covers amid a helping of familiar Beatles hits. With McCartney in a loose and carefree context, critical response to Unplugged (The Official Bootleg) was very warm. Initially released in a limited edition run in 1991, Unplugged (The Official Bootleg)—with artwork that recalls CHOBA B CCCP
Paul McCartney  Paul McCartney's Liverpool Oratorio  Paul McCartney's Liverpool Oratorio is Paul McCartney's first official foray into classical music and was released in 1991. Composed in collaboration with Carl Davis to commemorate The Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra's 150th anniversary, the project received a large amount of media attention upon its unveiling in June 1991. Broken up into eight separate movements, the story of the oratorio loosely follows McCartney's own lifeline, with the main character, Shanty, who is born in 1942 in Liverpool, raised to believe that being born where you are born carries with it certain responsibilities. After his school days where he often sagged off, Shanty began working and meets his future bride, Mary Dee. Following the death of his father, Shanty and Mary Dee are married and are forced to deal with the rigours of balancing a happy marriage and their careers. Amid a quarrel, Mary Dee reveals that she is pregnant and after surviving a nearly fatal accident, gives birth to their son. Thus, the cycle of life in Liverpool carries on. This recording was captured at the oratorio's premiere at Liverpool Cathedral with McCartney in attendance and features noted professional classical singers Kiri Te Kanawa, Jerry Hadley, Sally Burgess and Willard White
Paul McCartney  Off the Ground  Off the Ground is an album by Paul McCartney, released in 1993. As his first studio album of the 1990s, it is also the follow-up to the acclaimed Flowers in the Dirt from 1989.
Paul McCartney  Standing Stone (album)  Standing Stone is Paul McCartney's second full-length release of original classical music and was issued shortly after Flaming Pie's release in 1997. The world premiere performance was held at The Royal Albert Hall on 14 October 1997. Following up on 1991's Paul McCartney's Liverpool Oratorio, the Standing Stone project was composed out of a long poem McCartney authored and was performed by the London Symphony Orchestra and conducted by Lawrence Foster at EMI's Abbey Road Studios. Unlike Liverpool Oratorio, this new project is not an operatic performance of a story, but an instrumental one, though it employs the use of a choir. The cover for the album is actually one of the many photos taken by Linda McCartney during late 1969/early 1970 that would initially be seen on the inside gatefold cover of Paul's first album McCartney. Incidentally, this project was her husband's last release before Linda succumbed to breast cancer
Paul McCartney  Working Classical  Working Classical is Paul McCartney's third full-length release of original classical music and was issued one month after Run Devil Run's release in 1999. Following up on 1997's Standing Stone, the concept behind Working Classical was to place pre-existing (and in some cases, very well known) McCartney songs into an orchestral context. Specially for this project, McCartney also unveiled some new pieces, namely Haymakers, Midwife, Spiral and Tuesday. A different performance of A Leaf was originally released in October 1995 on a CD single, and is presented here in a new recording. Performing the new arrangements are the London Symphony Orchestra and the Loma Mar Quartet, with special orchestrations arranged by noted musicians Richard Rodney Bennett and Jonathan Tunick. The title of this project is a pun on the phrase working class, in the sense that McCartney, despite his elevated stature, still cherishes his Liverpool roots and is proud of them. Mirroring this ideology is his pride in his rock and roll songs and willingness to transfer them into the elevated classical music genre. Paul McCartney's Working Classical was another success in that genre, even though this time it failed to dent the regular US album charts. His subsequent foray into the classical realm is Ecce Cor Meum (Behold My Heart), released in the autumn of 2006.
Paul McCartney  Liverpool Sound Collage  Liverpool Sound Collage is an ambient electronic album by Paul McCartney, which is also credited to The Beatles, Super Furry Animals, and Youth. McCartney had previously released two projects with Youth under the moniker The Fireman. Because McCartney was so heavily involved in its creation, in addition to his production credit, Liverpool Sound Collage, which was released in 2000, is generally considered a part of his main discography and is filed under his name. Asked by artist Peter Blake to create something musical and with a Liverpool spirit to it, in order to complement his concurrent artwork exhibition, McCartney ended up harking all the way back to session chatter by The Beatles (hence their involvement) and using snippets of his 1991 classical piece Paul McCartney's Liverpool Oratorio. He also can be heard walking the streets and asking various pedestrians to give their impressions of Liverpool and The Beatles. Liverpool Sound Collage was nominated for the 2001 Grammy Award for Best Alternative Music Album.
Paul McCartney  Too Much Rain  Too Much Rain is a song by Paul McCartney and is the seventh track on his 2005 album Chaos and Creation in the Backyard. The song was recorded at George Martin's Air Studios in central London with producer Nigel Godrich. It was inspired by the theme to the 1936 film Modern Times, written by Charlie Chaplin and commonly known as Smile (lyrics were added to Smile in 1954 by John Turner and Geoffrey Parsons). The lyrics of Too Much Rain concern hope in the face of adversity (Laugh when your eyes are burning/Smile when your heart is filled with pain... ). In addition to Smile, McCartney has said the song was also inspired by his then-wife, Heather Mills McCartney, who had a lot of tough times in her life.
Paul McCartney  Tug of War (album)  Tug of War is an album by Paul McCartney, released in 1982. It is the follow-up to the 1980 album McCartney II and his first official solo album after the dissolution of Wings, who were disbanded by McCartney in April 1981. The recording sessions for the album reunited McCartney with producer George Martin. Tug of War was also McCartney's first album after the murder of John Lennon.
Paul McCartney  Teddy Boy (song)  Teddy Boy is a song by Paul McCartney and was first released on his first solo album McCartney, released in April 1970 after The Beatles disbanded. It was written by McCartney and originally recorded during the sessions for what became the Beatles' Let It Be album (1970). Several versions exist, all of which are acoustic, some of which included electric guitar or improvised harmony vocals. The Beatles recorded the song a number of times in January 1969, at their Apple Studios in London. A composite version made of two of these recordings was released in 1996 on the Anthology 3 album. According to Paul McCartney in the documentary Wingspan, McCartney wrote this for the Beatles' Let It Be sessions, but due to tension in the Beatles at the time nobody had the patience to work with the song, so Paul worked on it alone and released a rough demo on Anthology 3, and a final version appeared on his solo album McCartney.
Paul McCartney  The Family Way (soundtrack)  The Family Way is a soundtrack recording composed by Paul McCartney, released in January 1967. The album is the soundtrack to a late 1966 film of the same name, directed by Roy Boulting and starring Hayley Mills. The album was released under the name The George Martin Orchestra, The Family Way (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack). The Family Way won a Ivor Novello Award in 1967 and was remastered and released on CD in 1996. This recording is sometimes considered to be the first Beatles solo album, but most critics consider George Harrison's Wonderwall Music, also a soundtrack album, to be the first, because it was released under George Harrison's name while The Family Way was released under George Martin's name, even though it was released in November 1968. A 45 single was also released in 1966 featuring Theme From 'The Family Way' and Love in the Open Air on United Artists as UP1165.
Paul McCartney  The Paul McCartney Collection  The Paul McCartney Collection is a 16 volume set of reissues by Paul McCartney of his solo and Wings albums, with most adding bonus tracks. The discs in the collection were released separately in most of the world, with half appearing on June 7, 1993, and the remainder on August 9 of the same year. (The reissues were not released in the United States. ) A box set of all 16 discs was subsequently released in Japan.
Paul McCartney  Never Stop Doing What You Love  Never Stop Doing What You Love is a not-for-resale compilation of various Paul McCartney and Wings songs created for the employees and clients of Fidelity Investments, a company in the financial services industry. The ex-Beatle became the mutual fund giant's new spokesman in 2005 in a campaign entitled This Is Paul, and the disc was issued in support of McCartney's U.S. tour of the same year. On the day of its release, company employees were treated to a special recorded message by Paul himself informing them that Fidelity and I have a lot in common and urging them to never stop doing what you love.  McCartney received considerable criticism for his celebrity endorsement of Fidelity Investments, which many considered to be a vulgar attempt to increase his already astounding wealth. The cover features Paul playing his famous Höfner Beatle bass. The label side of the CD is printed to look like a vinyl record. The tracks for the compilation were chosen by McCartney and an executive from Fidelity, which had been given rights to McCartney's legacy catalog.
Paul McCartney  Hot as Sun  Hot as Sun is an instrumental written by Paul McCartney and included on his 1970 album McCartney coupled with Glasses (which also contained a snippet of Suicide, an unreleased McCartney tune). In the album's press release, McCartney described Hot as Sun as a song written in about 1958 or 59 or maybe earlier, when it was one of those songs that you play now and then. The Beatles did so during the Let It Be sessions. McCartney performed the song live with Wings in December 1979. In 1978, Hot as Sun / Glasses was used as the theme tune to The All-New Popeye Hourhttp://www. retrojunk. com/details_tvshows/1440-the-all-new-popeye-hour/. The original track was sped up, played at 45 rpm. It was also the introduction to a block of theatrical Popeye cartoons seen on New York's WNEW-TV 5 (now WNYW Fox 5). Tim Rice later added lyrics to the tune and it was issued as a single in July 1982 by Noosha Fox and also included on the Elaine Paige album of the same title in November 1982 (although the sleeve notes on Elaine's LP claimed that Paul had written the number specially for her). In a fictional short story which appeared in Rolling Stone magazine around the time of the Beatles' breakup, Hot as Sun was a lost Beatles album, unreleased due to the theft of its master tapes.
Paul McCartney  Ecce Cor Meum  Ecce Cor Meum (Latin for Behold My Heart) is the fourth classical album by Paul McCartney. The album was released on September 25, 2006 by EMI Classics. An oratorio in four movements, it is produced and orchestrated by John Fraser, written in Latin and English, and scored for orchestra and boys and adult choir.
Paul McCartney  Twin Freaks  Twin Freaks is a collaborative album by musician Paul McCartney with DJ and producer Freelance Hellraiser (Roy Kerry). The album was released on June 14, 2005.
Paul McCartney  Calico Skies  Calico Skies is the sixth song on Paul McCartney's 1997 album, Flaming Pie. While it wreaked havoc in the north-east US, the category-three storm Hurricane Bob that made landfall in August 1991 prompted McCartney (then staying in Long Island) to sit with an acoustic guitar and write what he describes as a gentle love song that becomes a Sixties protest song. McCartney invited George Martin to co-produce the piece, which - owing to its instrumental simplicity - was started, finished and mixed within a single session on 3 September 1992 in Sussex, England. It is the earliest recording on Flaming Pie. McCartney says of the song: Bob, the hurricane, knocked out all the power; it was all candle-light, cooking on a woodfire. Very primitive, but we like that enforced simplicity. I couldn't play records, so I made up little acoustic pieces. This was one of them - it's a primitive little powercut memory.  The song was on the setlist of most tours since and including the tour of Europe in 2003, with McCartney on acoustic guitar and Paul Wickens on accordion.
Paul McCartney  I Lost My Little Girl  I Lost My Little Girl is the first song written by Paul McCartney, when he was 14, in 1956 or 1957. A performance of this song can be heard on McCartney's 1991 album Unplugged (The Official Bootleg). McCartney wrote I Lost My Little Girl using his first guitar, a Framus Zenith (model 17) acoustic guitar, which he still owns. A version of this song featuring John Lennon on lead vocals was performed by The Beatles during their Get Back sessions.
Paul McCartney  The Space Within US  The Space Within US is a live DVD by Paul McCartney, released in November 2006. It is composed of footage taken during his fall 2005 'US' Tour in the United States in conjunction with his Chaos and Creation in the Backyard album release, though some of his Beatles songs and songs from his previous albums are also performed. A Blu-Ray version was released on November 18, 2008.
Paul McCartney  Junk (song)  Junk is a song written by Paul McCartney in 1968 while The Beatles were in India. It was originally under consideration for The Beatles (also known as the White Album). It was passed over for that LP, as it was for Abbey Road. It was eventually released on McCartney's debut solo album McCartney in 1970. The version McCartney played for the rest of the Beatles before the recording of The Beatles is included on Anthology 3. The song's working title was Jubilee.
Paul McCartney  Memory Almost Full  Memory Almost Full is the 21st studio album by Paul McCartney, released in the United Kingdom on 4 June 2007 and in the United States a day later. The album was the first release on Starbucks' Hear Music label. It was produced by David Kahne and recorded at Abbey Road Studios, Henson Recording Studios, AIR Studios
Paul McCartney  Heart of the Country (song)  Heart of the Country is a song written by Paul and Linda McCartney from their album Ram released in 1971. The song has simple acoustic tune with a heavy bass chorus. The topic is as simple as the title, a man searching for a farm in the middle of nowhere.
Paul McCartney  ITunes Festival: London  iTunes Festival: London is a live EP by Paul McCartney, released exclusively for the iTunes Store on August 21, 2007. It features four tracks from McCartney's 2007 album Memory Almost Full that he performed at the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London as part of the first annual iTunes Festival on July 5, 2007. The EP was the fourth part of a series.
Paul McCartney  Only Mama Knows  Only Mama Knows is a song by Paul McCartney and is the fourth track on his 2007 album Memory Almost Full. In November 2007, the song was featured as the last song in the Starbucks Song of the Day program. Also the song was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Solo Rock Vocal Performance.
Paul McCartney  The McCartney Years  The McCartney Years is a three-DVD set featuring music videos, live performances and other rare footage from Paul McCartney's solo career and Wings. The set spans the years 1970 to 2005. It was released by Warner Music in the UK on 12 November 2007, and by Rhino Entertainment in the United States the following day. The first two discs comprise promotional films, from Maybe I'm Amazed (1970) to Fine Line (2005). Additional features include a documentary about his recent album Chaos and Creation in the Backyard (Creating Chaos at Abbey Road), a film about the Band on the Run album and a feature-length audio commentary from McCartney himself. The third disc includes seven songs from the 1976 Wings concert Rockshow, a new edit of McCartney's 1991 appearance on MTV Unplugged, and eleven performances from his 2004 set at Glastonbury Festival. The live footage is also complemented by an optional commentary by McCartney. Other features includes his appearance at Live Aid in 1985, the Super Bowl XXXIX Halftime Show and interviews with Melvyn Bragg and Michael Parkinson. All videos have been digitally remastered, and the videos that were originally shot with an aspect ratio of 1.33 : 1 have been blown up to 1.78 : 1. This creates an odd effect for the videos, especially the ones that were originally shot on videotape, which now look like they were shot on film. Oddly enough, the videos that are available as extras are presented in their original form.
Paul McCartney  Paul McCartney in Red Square  Paul McCartney in Red Square is a live DVD by Paul McCartney, released in June 2005. It is composed of footage taken during his concerts in Moscow's Red Square and St Petersburg's Palace Square. Songs from Beatles, Wings and solo albums are performed. Each song is interspersed with interviews regarding the Beatles' banning in the Soviet Union in the 1960s, and how fans had to spend large sums of money on buying records from the black market. The DVD was authored by Neil Matthews at Ascent Media in NYC.
Paul McCartney  Your Loving Flame  Your Loving Flame is a love song by Paul McCartney, written for his future fiancée Heather Mills. It appeared on his 2001 album Driving Rain and was also said to have been the LP's lead single. Its status as a single is not clear, however, as Wikipedia omits this song from Paul McCartney's main singles discography. Other reliable sources such as AllMusic. com and the now-defunct Discographynet. com also do not list 'Your Loving Flame' as ever having been released as a single. However, the site RateYourMusic. com not only lists it as existing (in remix form), but even shows a picture of it as a vinyl 45rpm record. RateYourMusic also lists the release date as 2002, which would put it as having been released after the album's other two singles 'From A Lover To A Friend' and 'Freedom'. A live version appeared on the albums Back in the U.S. (2002) and Back in the World (2003), as well as the accompanying DVD. The song was also performed live at the Nobel Peace Prize awards in 2001. The music video for Your Loving Flame did not appear on McCartney's 2007 DVD The McCartney Years.
Paul McCartney  Get Back (film)  Get Back is a 1991 concert film starring Paul McCartney that documents The Paul McCartney World Tour of 1989–1990. The film was directed by Richard Lester, in a return to his Beatles-related work, and was released by Carolco Pictures and New Line Cinema, through the Seven Arts joint venture.
Paul McCartney  Paul Is Live – The New World Tour  Paul Is Live - The New World Tour is a 1993 concert film starring Paul McCartney. It was filmed during his 1993 concert tour, and was directed by Aubrey Powell.
Paul McCartney  Live at the Cavern Club  Live at the Cavern Club is a 1999 concert film starring Paul McCartney. It was filmed during his 1999 concert at the Cavern Club, and it was directed by Geoff Wonfor.
Paul McCartney  Amoeba's Secret  Amoeba's Secret is an EP by Paul McCartney recorded during a secret performance at Amoeba Music in Hollywood, California, on June 27, 2007. The EP was released in November 2007 in a limited vinyl edition, and in January 2009 on CD and download formats. The EP reached 119 on the Billboard 200 albums chart, despite relatively little promotion. The low-resolution album art is intentional, as to make the EP resemble a bootleg recording. The back of the sleeve features an incomplete wordsearch whose letters contain hidden details of the recording.
Paul McCartney  Hot Hits – Cold Cuts  Hot Hits - Cold Cuts (or Hot Hits, Cold Cutz) is an unreleased double compilation album by Paul McCartney. The album was planned to be a greatest hits album on the first disc (named Hot Hits) with the second disc (Cold Cuts) consisting of unreleased studio out-takes and live recordings dating from 1971 to 1980. .
Paul McCartney  Good Evening New York City  Good Evening New York City is a CD/DVD double live album by Paul McCartney consisting of material performed over three nights as the inaugural concert at New York City's Citi Field, 17, 18 and 21 July 2009, part of his Summer Live '09 concert tour. The album is McCartney’s third release for Hear Music, following 2007’s Memory Almost Full and the live EP Amoeba's Secret.
Paul McCartney  Paul McCartney Live in Los Angeles  Paul McCartney Live in Los Angeles is a live album by Paul McCartney recorded during a secret performance at Amoeba Music in Hollywood, California, on June 27, 2007. The album was released only in the United Kingdom and Ireland through a special promotion run by The Mail on Sunday and the Irish Sunday Mail. The album contains twelve tracks, including four tracks previously released on the 2007 Paul McCartney EP, Amoeba's Secret.
Paula Abdul  Spellbound (Paula Abdul album)  Spellbound is the second studio album released by Paula Abdul in May 1991. The album was an international success and spawned major radio hits with the singles Rush Rush, The Promise of a New Day, Blowing Kisses in the Wind, Vibeology and Will You Marry Me?. Though it was not as successful as Abdul's previous studio album, Forever Your Girl, the album was very successful in the United States, achieving Triple Platinum
Paula Abdul  Forever Your Girl  Forever Your Girl is the debut album from singer Paula Abdul. It was released on June 13, 1988 and took 64 weeks from its release to hit number one on the Billboard 200 album sales chart, the longest an album has been on the market before hitting number one. The album was eventually certified seven times Platinum in the US and sold 12 million worldwide. It also included four number one Hot 100 singles - Straight Up, Forever Your Girl, Cold Hearted, and Opposites Attract.  This ties for second most #1 songs from a single album
Paula Abdul  Shut Up and Dance  Shut Up and Dance: The Dance Mixes was Paula Abdul's second album release in 1990. It contained dance remixes of the six hit singles from Forever Your Girl
Paula Abdul  Head over Heels (Paula Abdul album)  Head over Heels is the third studio album (fourth overall) released by American pop singer Paula Abdul on June 13, 1995 under Virgin Records. The album featured the singles My Love Is For Real, Crazy Cool and Ain't Never Gonna Give You Up.
Paula Abdul  Paula Abdul: Greatest Hits  Paula Abdul: Greatest Hits is the second Greatest Hits album by American singer Paula Abdul
Paula Abdul  Greatest Hits: Straight Up!  Greatest Hits: Straight Up! is a greatest hits album by singer Paula Abdul. The album was released on May 8, 2007. The album contains Abdul's six U.S. number-ones. This hits album contains the top 20 single Will You Marry Me? which was left off her 2000 Greatest Hits album. Like its predecessor album, Greatest Hits: Straight Up! did not chart on the Billboard 200 (though it did chart near the bottom of the R&amp;B Albums chart). As well as containing Abdul's hits, it contains some album tracks which were not singles.
Paula Abdul  If I Were Your Girl  If I Were Your Girl is a ballad that was to be the 4th single from Paula Abdul's album, Head Over Heels. It was written by Crystal Bernard and Rhett Lawrence. Unfortunately, due to low album sales and the failure of Ain't Never Gonna Give You Up, If I Were Your Girl was never released. The song was included on both of Paula's greatest hits albums. Nevertheless, thanks to airplay the single did reach #98 on the airplay chart in Canada.
Paula Kelley  The Trouble with Success or How You Fit into the World  The Trouble With Success or How You Fit Into The World is Paula Kelley's second solo album. It was released in September 2003 on Kimchee Records in the United States. The album also has been released in Japan and France under different labels. The album shows off her many talents such as playing guitar, piano and harpsichord. Her own orchestra, The Paula Kelley Orchestra back her up on many of the songs. Los Angeles guitarist Aaron Tap played electric, 12-string and slide guitar. The album has gained critical acclaim and plenty of fans from around the world, including Japan, France and the United States.
Paula Kelley  Some Sucker's Life, Part 1: Demos and Lost Recordings  Some Sucker's Life, Part 1: Demos and Lost Recordings is Paula Kelley's third solo debut. The album is a collection of songs that were unreleased. It was released in April 2006.
Paula Kelley  Nothing/Everything  Nothing/Everything is the first debut album recorded by pop singer-songwriter, Paula Kelley.
Paula Kelley  A Bit of Everything  A Bit Of Everything is an EP recorded by pop singer Paula Kelley.
Paulina Rubio  Ananda (album)  Ananda is the seventh Spanish-language album by the Mexican singer Paulina Rubio and Rubio's eighth studio album as a solo artist and was released on September 18 in Latin America and Spain and September 19 in the United States. The album's first single is the mellow pop rock song, Ni Una Sola Palabra, written by Xabier San Martín (member of the Spanish band La Oreja de Van Gogh). The single was released on radio on July 24, 2006. Among the collaborators mentioned to appear on the album are Cachorro López, Colombian singer Juanes, Julieta Venegas and Coti Sorokin (the Argentine responsible for Rubio's 2004 hit single Te Quise Tanto). . On September 16, two days before the album's official release date, Mexican Stores put the album on sale to avoid piracy; this led the album's leaking that same day. In addition, some stores carry a special version of the album that includes a poster autographed by Rubio. On August 29, 2007, Cachorro López received a Latin Grammy nomination for Producer of the Year, for his work on Ananda. On 28 April 2007, it was announced that the album had sold 400,000 copies in the United States and Puerto Rico. Ananda was also certified gold and platinum in Mexico and Spain. The album was also awarded the first ever Tarabu de Oro for digital sales of over 250,000 downloads in Mexico alone. The album has sold 1 million copies worldwide.
Paulina Rubio  Pau-Latina  Pau-Latina is the seventh solo studio album by Mexican singer Paulina Rubio. It was released in the United States by Universal Latino on February 10, 2004. The album has sold 2 million copies to date.
Paulina Rubio  Border Girl  Border Girl is the first English-language album and the sixth solo studio album of the Mexican singer Paulina Rubio. The album was released in North America by Universal Motown Records on June 18, 2002. Border Girl includes Rubio's most successful single in English, Don't Say Goodbye (Si Tú Te Vas), which opened doors for Rubio in new markets such as the United Kingdom. The next singles, The One You Love (Todo Mi Amor), Baila Casanova (Casanova), and I'll Be Right Here (Sexual Lover) failed to gain airplay due the medium promotion of the album. The album has sold more than 2 million copies. This was declared Universal Motown Republic Group and Universal Motown Records's first latino album.
Paulina Rubio  Paulina (album)  Paulina is Mexican singer Paulina Rubio's fifth solo studio album. It was Rubio's first release with the Universal Latino record label. The album was nominated at the second Latin Grammy Awards for Album of The Year, Best Pop Female Vocal Album and Best Song for Y Yo Sigo Aquí. There was also a nomination for the video of her single Yo No Soy Esa Mujer, directed by Gustavo Garzon, at the third Latin Grammy Awards. The album achieved massive success throughout Latin America, Europe, Asia and the United States. The album has sold 5 million copies worldwide.
Paulina Rubio  Planeta Paulina  Planeta Paulina is an album by Mexican singer Paulina Rubio released in 1996 and her final album with the EMI Latin record label. The album includes the hit single Enamorada, whose gay-themed video sparked controversy. Planeta Paulina also includes the singles Siempre Tuya Desde La Raíz, Solo Por Ti and Enamorada as well as the theme song from Rubio's 1995 telenovela, Pobre Niña Rica.
Paulina Rubio  El tiempo es oro  El Tiempo Es Oro is an album by Mexican singer Paulina Rubio released in 1995. It includes the singles Te Daría Mi Vida, Nada de Ti and Hoy Te Dejé de Amar. Also on the album is the theme song from Rubio's 1994 debut Mexican film Bésame En La Boca.
Paulina Rubio  24 Kilates  24 Kilates is Mexican singer Paulina Rubio's second album as a solo artist released in 1993. The album consolidated Rubio as a singer. The hit singles Nieva, Nieva, El Me Engañó, and Asunto de Dos arose from the album. The album was a little less successful than la Chica Dorada but the album sold over 1.2 million copies worldwide.
Paulina Rubio  La Chica Dorada  La Chica Dorada is the debut album by Mexican pop diva Paulina Rubio's debut solo album (after leaving the group Timbiriche) and her first under the EMI Latin record label. The album includes Rubio's signature song and the single that launched her solo career, Mio, along with Sabor a Miel and Amor de Mujer. The album's title has stuck and today Rubio is known as 'la chica dorada' (the golden girl) in her native Mexico and throughout the Spanish-speaking world.
Paulina Rubio  Top Hits  Top Hits is the first Hits album by Mexican iconic pop singer Paulina Rubio, It was released in 2000. Last 2 Songs are Bonus Track Available only on the Mexican Version CD.
Paulina Rubio  I'm So in Love: Grandes Exitos  I'm So In Love: Grandes Exitos is the second Greatest Hits album by Mexican iconic pop singer Paulina Rubio, It was released in 2003. The album peaked #75 at Top Latin Albums.
Paulina Rubio  Paulina Remixes  Paulina Remixes is the 3rd Hits album by Mexican iconic pop singer Paulina Rubio, It was released in 2007.
Paulina Rubio  Gran City Pop  Gran City Pop is the ninth studio album by Mexican singer Paulina Rubio released by Universal Music Group on June 23, 2009 . The album's first single Causa y Efecto became Rubio's first number one single on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs since Ni Una Sola Palabra in 2006. It was also Rubio's fourth number one single in her career to reach number one on the Billboard Hot Latin Songs, and her 3rd consecutive album to come out with a #1 single on the Hot Latin tracks chart. On December 2nd, Gran City Pop received a Grammy nomination for Best Latin Pop Album. On December 11th, Gran City Pop placed at number 39th in the Top 100 most successful Latin Albums in the USA per Billboard Magazine. In addition, Rubio herself placed as the 15th most successful Latin Artist of the last ten years in the Latin Music Market in the USA and Puerto Rico.
Paulina Rubio  Celebridades  Celebridades is a CD of collection that included Paulina Rubio's best hits and live presentation, it was released as CD. and DVD. in March 2008.
Paulina Rubio  Mio: Paulina Y Sus Éxitos  Mio- Paulina Y Sus Éxitos is the eighth compilation album by Mexican pop singer Paulina Rubio. It was released in 2006 and contains 20 tracks from Rubio's first 4 studio albums.
Paulina Rubio  Gran City Pop: The Remixes  Gran City Pop: The Remixes is a remix album by Mexican pop singer Paulina Rubio. It was released by Universal Music on April 27, 2010 . It includes all the official remixes of Causa y Efecto, Ni Rosas Ni Juguetes and Algo De Ti, the three singles from the original album, Gran City Pop.
Pedro Fernandez  Yo No Fuí  Yo No Fuí is an album by Mexican iconic pop singer Pedro Fernández. It was released in 2000. The song Yo No Fuí was one of his biggest hits.
Pink  Try This  Try This is the third studio album by pop singer-songwriter P!nk. It was released on November 11, 2003. It features the singles Trouble, God Is a DJ and Last to Know, and is her first album to feature a Parental Advisory warning. Pink's lowest selling album to date, Try This has sold over 700,000 copies in the U.S. and over 3 million worldwide. The album was certified platinum by the RIAA with one million units shipped in the U.S. Try This is also Pink's final studio album for Arista before her long-term international success.
P!nk  Try This  Try This is the third studio album by pop singer-songwriter P!nk. It was released on November 11, 2003. It features the singles Trouble, God Is a DJ and Last to Know, and is her first album to feature a Parental Advisory warning. Pink's lowest selling album to date, Try This has sold over 700,000 copies in the U.S. and over 3 million worldwide. The album was certified platinum by the RIAA with one million units shipped in the U.S. Try This is also Pink's final studio album for Arista before her long-term international success.
Pink  Missundaztood  Missundaztood (stylized as M!ssundaztood) is the second studio album by pop singer-songwriter Pink, released in late 2001. It included the hit singles Get the Party Started, Don't Let Me Get Me, Just Like a Pill and Family Portrait. This has been Pink's most successful album to date, selling 13 million albums worldwide, earning critical acclaim upon release and introducing a markedly different sound and image from her R&amp;B-influenced debut.
P!nk  Missundaztood  Missundaztood (stylized as M!ssundaztood) is the second studio album by pop singer-songwriter Pink, released in late 2001. It included the hit singles Get the Party Started, Don't Let Me Get Me, Just Like a Pill and Family Portrait. This has been Pink's most successful album to date, selling 13 million albums worldwide, earning critical acclaim upon release and introducing a markedly different sound and image from her R&amp;B-influenced debut.
Pink  I'm Not Dead  I'm Not Dead is the fourth studio album by pop singer-songwriter Pink, released in North America on April 4, 2006; it was released a day earlier in most other territories. Pink worked with producers and songwriters Billy Mann, Josh Abraham, Max Martin, Luke Gottwald, Butch Walker and Mike Elizondo. The tracks range from the intrinsically personal to political. The album was originally titled Long Way to Happy, after the song of the same name, but Pink changed her mind because she thought I'm Not Dead made a stronger statement that this was a comeback album. In July 2005, clips of 'Cuz I Can, U + Ur Hand (then titled You and Your Hand), Long Way to Happy, Who Knew, and Nobody Knows were leaked to the internet. The album (still planned to be titled Long Way To Happy) was originally slated for a release date of September 20, 2005. The album has sold 6.5 million copies. The album yielded seven singles including the lead single Stupid Girls which became a top five single in the UK and Australia and a top 20 single in the United States. The album's second single, Who Knew, became a top 10 single in the United States peaking at nine and the album's third single U + Ur Hand are credited for re-energizing the sales of the I'm Not Dead in the United States. Songs like Nobody Knows, Leave Me Alone (I'm Lonely), Dear Mr. President and 'Cuz I Can followed the success of the first three singles.
P!nk  I'm Not Dead  I'm Not Dead is the fourth studio album by pop singer-songwriter Pink, released in North America on April 4, 2006; it was released a day earlier in most other territories. Pink worked with producers and songwriters Billy Mann, Josh Abraham, Max Martin, Luke Gottwald, Butch Walker and Mike Elizondo. The tracks range from the intrinsically personal to political. The album was originally titled Long Way to Happy, after the song of the same name, but Pink changed her mind because she thought I'm Not Dead made a stronger statement that this was a comeback album. In July 2005, clips of 'Cuz I Can, U + Ur Hand (then titled You and Your Hand), Long Way to Happy, Who Knew, and Nobody Knows were leaked to the internet. The album (still planned to be titled Long Way To Happy) was originally slated for a release date of September 20, 2005. The album has sold 6.5 million copies. The album yielded seven singles including the lead single Stupid Girls which became a top five single in the UK and Australia and a top 20 single in the United States. The album's second single, Who Knew, became a top 10 single in the United States peaking at nine and the album's third single U + Ur Hand are credited for re-energizing the sales of the I'm Not Dead in the United States. Songs like Nobody Knows, Leave Me Alone (I'm Lonely), Dear Mr. President and 'Cuz I Can followed the success of the first three singles.
Pink  Can't Take Me Home  Can't Take Me Home is the debut album by American pop singer P!nk, released in the United States on April 4, 2000 by LaFace Records. It produced three singles and peaked at number twenty-six on the U.S. Billboard 200. It has sold over 2 million copies in the United States. Producers included Kevin She'kspere Briggs, Babyface, Kandi Burruss, Terence Tramp Baby Abney, Daryl Simmons, and Tricky. This album featured a modern R&amp;B sound; Pink went for a more pop-rock oriented sound on her follow-up albums. She later went on to admit that during the period of promoting this album, she felt trapped because she wasn't expressing her full musical influences. You Make Me Sick was on the Save The Last Dance (2001) soundtrack and in the movie. Split Personality was not released as a single but was featured in The Princess Diaries (2001) movie but did not make it on the soundtrack.
P!nk  Can't Take Me Home  Can't Take Me Home is the debut album by American pop singer P!nk, released in the United States on April 4, 2000 by LaFace Records. It produced three singles and peaked at number twenty-six on the U.S. Billboard 200. It has sold over 2 million copies in the United States. Producers included Kevin She'kspere Briggs, Babyface, Kandi Burruss, Terence Tramp Baby Abney, Daryl Simmons, and Tricky. This album featured a modern R&amp;B sound; Pink went for a more pop-rock oriented sound on her follow-up albums. She later went on to admit that during the period of promoting this album, she felt trapped because she wasn't expressing her full musical influences. You Make Me Sick was on the Save The Last Dance (2001) soundtrack and in the movie. Split Personality was not released as a single but was featured in The Princess Diaries (2001) movie but did not make it on the soundtrack.
Pink  Pink: Live from Wembley Arena  Pink: Live from Wembley Arena is a Pink music DVD released on March 22, 2007. It is from a performance at Wembley Arena, London on her I'm Not Dead Tour. The performances of Lady Marmalade and Bob Marley's Redemption Song are not included on the DVD. The DVD reached number one on the UK Music DVD Chart. It debuted at number three on the Italian Music DVD Chart and at number one on the Australian DVD Chart, on which it replaced Pink's previous DVD, Pink: Live in Europe (2006), at number one. Pink: Live from Wembley Arena is certified fourteen times platinum for 210,000 copies shipped and has spent 16 consecutive weeks at number one in Australia.
P!nk  Pink: Live from Wembley Arena  Pink: Live from Wembley Arena is a Pink music DVD released on March 22, 2007. It is from a performance at Wembley Arena, London on her I'm Not Dead Tour. The performances of Lady Marmalade and Bob Marley's Redemption Song are not included on the DVD. The DVD reached number one on the UK Music DVD Chart. It debuted at number three on the Italian Music DVD Chart and at number one on the Australian DVD Chart, on which it replaced Pink's previous DVD, Pink: Live in Europe (2006), at number one. Pink: Live from Wembley Arena is certified fourteen times platinum for 210,000 copies shipped and has spent 16 consecutive weeks at number one in Australia.
Pink  Pink: Live in Europe  Pink: Live in Europe is the first live music DVD from Pink, released in 2006. It was shot during the European leg of the 2004 Try This Tour. The setlist more or less was in chronological order (with a few obvious exceptions including Get the Party Started). Most of the singles were represented, with the exception of You Make Me Sick and several album-only cuts were prominently featured. It is also notable that several songs that appear as collaborations on albums were not featured as such on tour, with Pink either taking over vocals for the previous partners or omitting those segments entirely.
P!nk  Pink: Live in Europe  Pink: Live in Europe is the first live music DVD from Pink, released in 2006. It was shot during the European leg of the 2004 Try This Tour. The setlist more or less was in chronological order (with a few obvious exceptions including Get the Party Started). Most of the singles were represented, with the exception of You Make Me Sick and several album-only cuts were prominently featured. It is also notable that several songs that appear as collaborations on albums were not featured as such on tour, with Pink either taking over vocals for the previous partners or omitting those segments entirely.
Pink  Pink Box  Pink Box: Special Edition is a box set of American singer Pink's albums Missundaztood, Try This, I'm Not Dead and the DVD Pink: Live in Europe. It was released on December 1, 2007 in Australia and on December 4 it was released as an import the United States. In the United Kingdom, the box was released on December 3, 2007. It does not contain her debut album Can't Take Me Home. Though this was imported, on May 21, 2009 it was released for sale in the UK again, this time including Can't Take Me Home instead of Pink: Live in Europe. This time it debuted at #7 on the UK albums chart, ahead of Funhouse which was holding at #9 in its 31st week at the time. A spanish release (released in June, 2010) contains Can't Take Me Home instead of Pink: Live in Europe, in a blue cover, and three following albums Missundaztood, Try This and I'm Not Dead.
P!nk  Pink Box  Pink Box: Special Edition is a box set of American singer Pink's albums Missundaztood, Try This, I'm Not Dead and the DVD Pink: Live in Europe. It was released on December 1, 2007 in Australia and on December 4 it was released as an import the United States. In the United Kingdom, the box was released on December 3, 2007. It does not contain her debut album Can't Take Me Home. Though this was imported, on May 21, 2009 it was released for sale in the UK again, this time including Can't Take Me Home instead of Pink: Live in Europe. This time it debuted at #7 on the UK albums chart, ahead of Funhouse which was holding at #9 in its 31st week at the time. A spanish release (released in June, 2010) contains Can't Take Me Home instead of Pink: Live in Europe, in a blue cover, and three following albums Missundaztood, Try This and I'm Not Dead.
Pink  Funhouse (Pink album)  Funhouse is the fifth studio album by American pop rock singer Pink, released by LaFace Records worldwide in October 2008. Upon its release, the album reached number one on the charts in 6 countries including Australia, New Zealand, Netherlands and United Kingdom, while debuting at number two in Germany, Ireland, and United States. Singles from the album include So What, which is considered as Pink's most successful song to date, and is her first to ever reach the top spot in the United States. Sober and Please Don't Leave Me were released as the second and third singles respectively, and both reached the Top 20 and the Year-End Chart in the United States. They were followed by title track Funhouse and I Don't Believe You which received moderate success. Final single, Glitter in the Air, which was performed at the 52nd Grammys, was released as the seventh single of the album, and reached top 20 in the Billboard Hot 100. The album's original title was Heartbreak Is a Motherfucker, a reference to the album's frank references to Pink's separation from her then ex-husband, motocross racer Carey Hart. However, the title was changed to avoid public reactions that may cause a decrease in the sales. To date, Funhouse has earned Pink three Grammy nominations and three VMA nominations. It became her highest charter in the United States, and the first to spawn a number-one single there, in addition to five Hot 100 entries, four of which reached the top twenty. It's also her third to feature a Parental Advisory sticker and her best seller since 2001's Missundaztood, having sold over seven million units by July, 2010. Just like I'm Not Dead, Funhouse was re-released. The re-release took place one year after the original release date, it included a bonus DVD and was accompanied by the release of Funhouse Tour: Live in Australia, a live album taped during Pink's Australian leg of the Funhouse Tour.
P!nk  Funhouse (Pink album)  Funhouse is the fifth studio album by American pop rock singer Pink, released by LaFace Records worldwide in October 2008. Upon its release, the album reached number one on the charts in 6 countries including Australia, New Zealand, Netherlands and United Kingdom, while debuting at number two in Germany, Ireland, and United States. Singles from the album include So What, which is considered as Pink's most successful song to date, and is her first to ever reach the top spot in the United States. Sober and Please Don't Leave Me were released as the second and third singles respectively, and both reached the Top 20 and the Year-End Chart in the United States. They were followed by title track Funhouse and I Don't Believe You which received moderate success. Final single, Glitter in the Air, which was performed at the 52nd Grammys, was released as the seventh single of the album, and reached top 20 in the Billboard Hot 100. The album's original title was Heartbreak Is a Motherfucker, a reference to the album's frank references to Pink's separation from her then ex-husband, motocross racer Carey Hart. However, the title was changed to avoid public reactions that may cause a decrease in the sales. To date, Funhouse has earned Pink three Grammy nominations and three VMA nominations. It became her highest charter in the United States, and the first to spawn a number-one single there, in addition to five Hot 100 entries, four of which reached the top twenty. It's also her third to feature a Parental Advisory sticker and her best seller since 2001's Missundaztood, having sold over seven million units by July, 2010. Just like I'm Not Dead, Funhouse was re-released. The re-release took place one year after the original release date, it included a bonus DVD and was accompanied by the release of Funhouse Tour: Live in Australia, a live album taped during Pink's Australian leg of the Funhouse Tour.
Pink  Pink: Live in Australia  Pink: Live In Australia is a music DVD by American pop singer Pink. The DVD contains the July 17 and July 18, 2009 concerts of Pink's record-breaking Funhouse Tour at the Sydney Entertainment Centre in Sydney, Australia. It was released in late October and early November 2009. Due to huge demand in Australia, the DVD sold 170,000 copies on pre-orders alone, and has gone on to become the highest selling music DVD in Australian history, currently certified at 28 times platinum.
P!nk  Pink: Live in Australia  Pink: Live In Australia is a music DVD by American pop singer Pink. The DVD contains the July 17 and July 18, 2009 concerts of Pink's record-breaking Funhouse Tour at the Sydney Entertainment Centre in Sydney, Australia. It was released in late October and early November 2009. Due to huge demand in Australia, the DVD sold 170,000 copies on pre-orders alone, and has gone on to become the highest selling music DVD in Australian history, currently certified at 28 times platinum.
Pink  Greatest Hits... So Far!  Greatest Hits... So Far!!! is an upcoming greatest hits collection by American singer-songwriter Pink. It will be released on November 16, 2010 by LaFace Records. It will feature three new songs, including the first single off the album, entitled Raise Your Glass.
P!nk  Greatest Hits... So Far!  Greatest Hits... So Far!!! is an upcoming greatest hits collection by American singer-songwriter Pink. It will be released on November 16, 2010 by LaFace Records. It will feature three new songs, including the first single off the album, entitled Raise Your Glass.
Róisín Murphy  Ruby Blue (album)  Ruby Blue is the debut solo album of Irish singer Róisín Murphy, released by Echo Records on 13 June 2005. After she and Mark Brydon dissolved their electronic duo Moloko, Murphy began working with producer and musician Matthew Herbert, known for his musique concrète approach to music. The songs were first released through three extended plays and were then compiled into a studio album. The album often samples sounds made by everyday objects and actions, including cosmetics, brass mice, dancing and ornaments. It mixes the electronic music for which Moloko was known with jazz and pop
Roisin Murphy  Ruby Blue (album)  Ruby Blue is the debut solo album of Irish singer Róisín Murphy, released by Echo Records on 13 June 2005. After she and Mark Brydon dissolved their electronic duo Moloko, Murphy began working with producer and musician Matthew Herbert, known for his musique concrète approach to music. The songs were first released through three extended plays and were then compiled into a studio album. The album often samples sounds made by everyday objects and actions, including cosmetics, brass mice, dancing and ornaments. It mixes the electronic music for which Moloko was known with jazz and pop
Róisín Murphy  Overpowered  Overpowered is the second solo studio album by Irish recording artist Róisín Murphy, released in Ireland on 12 October 2007 and in the United Kingdom and rest of Europe on 15 October 2007. The album was to be released in the United States in late 2008 or early 2009, but was cancelled by EMI due to financial difficulties on their part. Receiving widespread critical acclaim, the album was more commercially successful than its predecessor, debuting at number twenty on the UK Albums Chart.
Roisin Murphy  Overpowered  Overpowered is the second solo studio album by Irish recording artist Róisín Murphy, released in Ireland on 12 October 2007 and in the United Kingdom and rest of Europe on 15 October 2007. The album was to be released in the United States in late 2008 or early 2009, but was cancelled by EMI due to financial difficulties on their part. Receiving widespread critical acclaim, the album was more commercially successful than its predecessor, debuting at number twenty on the UK Albums Chart.
Róisín Murphy  Live at Ancienne Belgique 19.11.07  Live At Ancienne Belgique 19.11.07 is the first live album by former Moloko vocalist Róisín Murphy. It was recorded at Ancienne Belgique in Belgium on 19 November 2007. The album was recorded by ConcertLive and was sold exclusively through their website. The album was limited to only 1,500 copies worldwide.
Roisin Murphy  Live at Ancienne Belgique 19.11.07  Live At Ancienne Belgique 19.11.07 is the first live album by former Moloko vocalist Róisín Murphy. It was recorded at Ancienne Belgique in Belgium on 19 November 2007. The album was recorded by ConcertLive and was sold exclusively through their website. The album was limited to only 1,500 copies worldwide.
Róisín Murphy  Sequins 1  Sequins 1 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in January 2005.
Roisin Murphy  Sequins 1  Sequins 1 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in January 2005.
Róisín Murphy  Sequins 2  Sequins 2 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in February 2005.
Roisin Murphy  Sequins 2  Sequins 2 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in February 2005.
Róisín Murphy  Sequins 3  Sequins 3 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in February 2005.
Roisin Murphy  Sequins 3  Sequins 3 is a limited edition extended play by Irish singer Róisín Murphy. It was released by Echo Records on 12-inch vinyl in February 2005.
Ray Charles  Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music  Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music is a studio album by American R&amp;B and soul musician Ray Charles, released in April 1962 on ABC-Paramount Records. Recording sessions for the album took place in early to mid-February 1962 at Capitol Studios in New York City and at United Recording Studios in Hollywood, California. Production was handled entirely by Charles and renown conductor Sid Feller. A departure from Charles's previous work, the album features country, folk, and Western music standards covered and redone by Charles in popular song forms of the time, including R&amp;B, pop, and jazz. As his fifth LP release for ABC-Paramount, Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music became a rapid critical and commercial success as it brought Ray Charles further mainstream notice, following his tenure for Atlantic Records. With the help of the album's four charting singles, Charles earned recognition in the pop market, as well as airplay on both R&amp;B and country radio stations. Modern Sounds and its lead single, I Can't Stop Loving You, were both certified gold in sales by the Recording Industry Association of America on July 19, 1962, as each record had sold half a million copies in the United States. Regarded by many critics as Charles's best studio album, Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music has been considered by several music writers to be a landmark album in American music. The album's integration of soul and country music bent racial barriers in popular music, amid the height of the African-American civil rights struggle. In the process of recording the album, Charles became one of the first African-American musicians to exercise complete artistic control over his own recording career. In 2003, the album was ranked number 104 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
Ray Charles  Genius Loves Company  Genius Loves Company is the final studio album by rhythm and blues and soul musician Ray Charles, posthumously released August 31, 2004 on Concord Records. Recording sessions for the album took place between June 2003 and March 2004. The album consists of R&amp;B, country, pop and blues standards performed by Charles and several guest musicians, such as Natalie Cole, Elton John, James Taylor, Norah Jones, B.B. King, Gladys Knight, Diana Krall, Van Morrison, Willie Nelson and Bonnie Raitt. Genius Loves Company was the last album recorded and completed by Charles before his death in June 2004. The album was produced as a collaboration of Concord Records and Hear Music, the record label owned by the coffee chain Starbucks. It served as the first original non-compilation release by Hear Music, as well as one of Ray Charles' most commercially successful albums. On February 2, 2005, Genius Loves Company was certified triple-platinum in sales by the Recording Industry Association of America following sales of over three million copies in the United States. The album featured an iconic image by photographer Norman Seeff on the cover.
Ray Charles  The Genius of Ray Charles  The Genius of Ray Charles is a 1959 album by Ray Charles. In 2003, the album was ranked number 263 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The Genius of Ray Charles announced his breakout from rhythm and blues and onto a broader musical stage. Atlantic Records gave Charles full support in production and arrangements. As originally presented, the A side of the album featured the Ray Charles band with David Fathead Newman supplemented by players from the Count Basie and Duke Ellington bands, and arrangements by Quincy Jones. The B side of the original album consists of six ballads with arrangements by Ralph Burns and a large string orchestra. Charles's performance of Come Rain or Come Shine, a song identified with Frank Sinatra, brought public attention to his voice alone without the distractions of his soulful piano and his snappy band. Each side contains a tribute to Louis Jordan with two songs he had hits with Let the Good Times Roll and (Don't Let the Sun Catch You Crying).
Ray Charles  Live (Ray Charles album)  Live is an album by Ray Charles. It consists of live concert recordings from the Newport Jazz Festival in 1958 and from an Atlanta show at Herndon Stadium in 1959. The album was originally released in 1987 and re-released in 1990. Eight of the ten tracks from the Newport show were previously released on Ray Charles at Newport. The Atlanta show, plus one track from the Newport show, was previously released as Ray Charles in Person (1960).
Ray Charles  Genius & Friends  Genius &amp; Friends is a 2005 compilation tribute album by rhythm and blues musician Ray Charles, consisting of duets between Charles and musicians recorded during 1997 to 2005. The contributing artists were personally chosen by Ray Charles.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles Anthology  Ray Charles Anthology is the first compact disc to collect many of soul music icon Ray Charles' ABC-Paramount-era recordings. Allmusic considers it to be the best single CD collection of Ray Charles' '60s and '70s ABC-Paramount material, while Rhino Records, the issuing label, refers to it in the liner notes as the compact disc edition of Ray Charles' Greatest Hits, alluding to the ABC-Paramount LP of the same name. It is one of the first CDs to be released by Rhino. Charles, who retained the master rights (currently controlled by his estate since his June 2004 passing) to his ABC-Paramount recordings, supervised a remixing of the 20 songs on thls compilation especially for this recording with master sound engineer Steve Hoffman, while Rhino chairman Richard Foos helped select and sequence the tracks for the CD. While the CD is culled entirely from Charles' ABC-Paramount recordings, his Atlantic Records period is represented by three live recordings of What'd I Say, I Got a Woman, and Hallelujah I Love Her So from the 1965 concert recording Ray Charles Live In Concert. The album was repackaged with a new cover after Charles' death.
Ray Charles  Dedicated to You  Dedicated to You is a 1961 album by Ray Charles. Dedicated to You, originally released in January 1961, collect’s Ray’s musical love notes to 12 very special women, by name. A 1998 Rhino Records re-issue combined, on a single CD, Dedicated to You and Ray Charles and Betty Carter.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles (album)  Ray Charles is Ray Charles' 1957 debut album for Atlantic Records. It was re-released as Hallelujah I Love Her So in 1962.
Ray Charles  The Great Ray Charles  The Great Ray Charles is Ray Charles' second album for Atlantic Records. Released in 1957. Later CD re-issues often include as a bonus, 6 of 8 tracks from The Genius After Hours.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles at Newport  Ray Charles at Newport is a 1958 live album of Ray Charles' July 5, 1958 performance at the Newport Jazz Festival. All tracks from this album, along with all tracks from his 1959 Herndon Stadium performance, were also released on the 1987 Atlantic compilation, Ray Charles, Live.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles and Betty Carter  Ray Charles and Betty Carter is a 1961 album by Betty Carter and Ray Charles. The pair's recording of Baby, It's Cold Outside on the album topped the R&amp;B charts. A 1988 CD/LP re-issue included three bonus tracks and the 1998 Rhino Records re-issue combined, on a single CD, the original Ray Charles and Betty Carter with the complete Dedicated to You.
Ray Charles  True to Life  True to Life is a 1977 album by Ray Charles. The album contains several cover versions, most notably Johnny Nash's I Can See Clearly Now, Joe Cocker's The Jealous Kind, George and Ira Gershwin's How Long Has This Been Going On?, and The Beatles' Let It Be.
Ray Charles  The Genius Hits the Road  The Genius Hits the Road is a 1960 album by Ray Charles
Ray Charles  Genius + Soul = Jazz  Genius + Soul = Jazz is a 1961 album by Ray Charles. Featuring arrangements by Quincy Jones and Ralph Burns, Charles is accompanied by members of The Count Basie Band. Highlights include One Mint Julep and I've Got News for You. The album was re-issued by Rhino Records in 1997 on a single CD together with Charles' 1970 My Kind of Jazz.
Ray Charles  Ray (soundtrack)  Ray is the soundtrack of the 2004 Academy Award- and Golden Globe-winning film Ray starring Jamie Foxx (who won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role as Ray Charles in this film), Kerry Washington, Terrence Howard, Clifton Powell and Regina King. The score was composed by Craig Armstrong. The album won a Grammy Award and was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Film Music.
Ray Charles  The Birth of Soul  The Birth of Soul: The Complete Atlantic Rhythm and Blues Recordings is a 3CD box set compilation by Ray Charles, released in 1991. In 2003, the album was ranked number 53 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles in Person  In Person is a live album recorded by Ray Charles on May 28, 1959 on a rainy night in Atlanta, Georgia at Morris Brown College's Herndon Stadium. All tracks from this album together with those from Ray Charles at Newport were also released on the 1987 Atlantic compilation CD, Ray Charles Live. The album was recorded by the concert sponsor, radio station WAOK. The station's lead disk jockey, Zenas Daddy Sears, recorded the album from the audience using a single microphone. The album is noted for its technical excellence in balancing band, singer, and audience, and also for its documentation of the jazzy R&amp;B Ray Charles sound prior to his great crossover success.
Ray Charles  What'd I Say (album)  What'd I Say is a studio album recorded by Ray Charles in New York City and released in 1959. What'd I Say peaked at #20 on the Billboard Pop Albums chart in 1962. The album launched Charles' first top 10 hit, What'd I Say, and became his first gold record.
Ray Charles  The Genius Sings the Blues  The Genius Sings the Blues is an album by Ray Charles, released in October 1961 on Atlantic Records. The album was his last release for Atlantic, but one of his most memorable, compiling twelve blues songs from various sessions during his tenure for the label. The album showcases Charles's stylistic development with a combination of piano blues, jazz, and southern R&amp;B. The photo for the album cover was taken by renowned photographer Lee Friedlander. The Genius Sings the Blues was reissued in 2003 by Rhino Entertainment with liner notes by Billy Taylor.
Ray Charles  Yes Indeed!  Yes Indeed! is a R&amp;B/soul album by Ray Charles, released in 1958 by Atlantic. This is the second of three Atlantic LPs that compile Charles' hit singles for the label. (See discography) Ray Charles, Yes Indeed! is also the title the book &amp; DVD tribute published in memory of Ray Charles by his manager Joe Adams, The Ray Charles Marketing Group and Genesis Publications in 2009.
Ray Charles  Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music Volume Two  Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music Volume Two is a 1962 album by Ray Charles. It is the second volume of country and western recordings by Ray Charles following his landmark debut on ABC Records. Following the surprising success of Modern Sounds In Country &amp; Western Music Vol 1, an album of country music covers, which sold over a million copies, Charles and producer Sid Feller decided to do a follow-up. Unlike the previous album, where slow and fast tracks more or less alternated, this one features one side performed by The Ray Charles Big Band with the Raelettes, while the other side is with a string section and the whitebread backing singers from the first album. The album has been reissued on CD, coupled with Volume 1, and is also featured on The Complete Country &amp; Western Recordings: 1959-1986 Box Set which also features the first C &amp; W volume and many of Charles' later country recordings.
Ray Charles  The Best of Ray Charles  The Best of Ray Charles is a compilation album released in 1970 on the Atlantic Jazz label featuring previously released instrumental (non-vocal) tracks recorded by Ray Charles between November 1956 and November 1958. The instrumental, Rockhouse would later be covered, as Ray's Rockhouse (1985), by The Manhattan Transfer with lyrics by Jon Hendricks.
Ray Charles  Ingredients in a Recipe for Soul  Ingredients in a Recipe for Soul is a 1963 album by Ray Charles. In 1990, it was released on compact disc by DCC with four bonus tracks. In 1997, it was packaged together with 1964's Have A Smile With Me on a two-for-one CD reissue on Rhino with historical liner notes.
Ray Charles  Sweet & Sour Tears  Sweet &amp; Sour Tears is a 1964 album by Ray Charles. It is a concept album featuring songs with titles or lyrics referring to crying. In 1997, Rhino Records reissued the album on compact disc with seven bonus tracks from his early career (1956-1971) that added to the crying theme.
Ray Charles  Have a Smile with Me  Have a Smile With Me is a 1964 album by Ray Charles. In a reversal of the previous concept album Sweet &amp; Sour Tears, this album is filled with humorous songs. In 1997, it was packaged together with 1963's Ingredients in a Recipe for Soul on a two-for-one CD reissue on Rhino with historical liner notes.
Ray Charles  Live in Concert (Ray Charles album)  Live in Concert is a live album by Ray Charles released in 1965 by ABC-Paramount Records. The recording was made at the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, California in September, 1964 following a tour of Japan.
Ray Charles  A Man and His Soul  A Man and His Soul is a 1967 compilation of studio and live performances by Ray Charles. The LP version includes an album size booklet containing biographical information, photos, and details on his recordings.
Ray Charles  The Genius After Hours  The Genius After Hours is a 1961 album by Ray Charles. All of the songs were taken from the same three studio sessions that created the album The Great Ray Charles which featured the use of both a trio and a septet; the latter arranged by Quincy Jones. Also appearing on the album is David Fathead Newman on tenor and alto, as well as the trumpeter Joseph Bridgewater.
Ray Charles  Soul Brothers  Soul Brothers is an album recorded by Ray Charles and Milt Jackson and released by Atlantic Records in 1958. The album was later re-issued in a 2 CD compilation together with the Charles / Jackson album Soul Meeting and included additional tracks from the same recording sessions not present on the original LP releases.
Ray Charles  Soul Meeting  Soul Meeting is an album released in 1958, recorded by Ray Charles and Milt Jackson for Atlantic Records. The album was later re-issued together with another Charles / Jackson recording, Soul Brothers on a 2 CD compilation together with other 'bonus' tracks from the same recording sessions.
Ray Charles  Do the Twist! with Ray Charles  Do the Twist! with Ray Charles is a 1961 Atlantic Records compilation album of previously released Ray Charles tracks.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles Greatest Hits  Ray Charles Greatest Hits is a 1962 album by Ray Charles. Although many similarly titled albums would be released over the years, this was the first, and it contained many tracks previously released by ABC only as singles.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles in Concert  Ray Charles In Concert is a limited edition compilation album of live performances by Ray Charles released in 2003 by Rhino Handmade. The tracks were all previously released on 5 different Ray Charles live concert albums released between 1958 and 1975.
Ray Charles  Ray Sings, Basie Swings  Ray Sings, Basie Swings is a posthumously created album that mixes previously unreleased Ray Charles vocal performances, recorded at live concerts in the mid-1970's, together with newly recorded instrumental tracks by the contemporary Count Basie Orchestra.
Ray Charles  Strong Love Affair  Strong Love Affair is a 1996 album by Ray Charles released on Warner Bros. Records
Ray Charles  Together Again (Ray Charles album)  Together Again, also known as Country and Western Meets Rhythm and Blues, is a studio album by Ray Charles released in 1965 by ABC-Paramount Records.
Ray Charles  My Kind of Jazz  My Kind of Jazz is a 1970 album by Ray Charles.
Ray Charles  Jazz Number II  Jazz Number II is a 1973 album by Ray Charles.
Ray Charles  My Kind of Jazz Part 3  My Kind of Jazz Part 3 is a 1975 album by Ray Charles released by Crossover Records. Concord Records re-issued the contents in downloadable (digital) form in 2009.
Rebbie Brown  Yours Faithfully  Yours Faithfully is the fourth and final studio album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson.
Rebbie Jackson  Yours Faithfully  Yours Faithfully is the fourth and final studio album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson.
Rebbie Brown  Centipede (album)  Centipede is the debut album by American singer Rebbie Jackson. Released on the CBS label in 1984, the record spawned two top-forty Billboard charting hits, the most famous being the title track. Centipede became Jackson's only gold-certified album throughout her 14-year musical career. On May 25 2010, the album was re-issued on a CD also containing its follow-up, Reaction. The album is mentioned in the 2006 RuPaul song Supermodel (El Lay Toya Jam) from the album ReWorked.
Rebbie Jackson  Centipede (album)  Centipede is the debut album by American singer Rebbie Jackson. Released on the CBS label in 1984, the record spawned two top-forty Billboard charting hits, the most famous being the title track. Centipede became Jackson's only gold-certified album throughout her 14-year musical career. On May 25 2010, the album was re-issued on a CD also containing its follow-up, Reaction. The album is mentioned in the 2006 RuPaul song Supermodel (El Lay Toya Jam) from the album ReWorked.
Rebbie Brown  Reaction (album)  Reaction is the second album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson. The album released in 1986 and spawned two mildly successful singles, Reaction and You Send the Rain Away, a duet with Robin Zander. The album-only track Tonight I'm Yours, a duet with Isaac Hayes received substantial airplay but was not commercially released as a single. Reaction received a limited CD re-issue in Japan in the early 1990s. Reaction was re-issued on CD with Jackson's previous album Centipede on May 18, 2010.
Rebbie Jackson  Reaction (album)  Reaction is the second album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson. The album released in 1986 and spawned two mildly successful singles, Reaction and You Send the Rain Away, a duet with Robin Zander. The album-only track Tonight I'm Yours, a duet with Isaac Hayes received substantial airplay but was not commercially released as a single. Reaction received a limited CD re-issue in Japan in the early 1990s. Reaction was re-issued on CD with Jackson's previous album Centipede on May 18, 2010.
Rebbie Brown  R U Tuff Enuff  R U Tuff Enuff is the third album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson. This album was a different approach for Jackson, as it had a harder-edged street R&amp;B sound that was very popular at the time, which was also exhibited in the La Toya album by Jackson's sister, La Toya Jackson. The single Plaything peaked at number eight on the Billboard R&amp;B charts, Jackson's highest charting single since 1984's Centipede. The title track was also released as a single, but did not showcase the same amount of success.
Rebbie Jackson  R U Tuff Enuff  R U Tuff Enuff is the third album by American R&amp;B singer Rebbie Jackson. This album was a different approach for Jackson, as it had a harder-edged street R&amp;B sound that was very popular at the time, which was also exhibited in the La Toya album by Jackson's sister, La Toya Jackson. The single Plaything peaked at number eight on the Billboard R&amp;B charts, Jackson's highest charting single since 1984's Centipede. The title track was also released as a single, but did not showcase the same amount of success.
Rebbie Brown  The Rebbie Jackson Collection  The Rebbie Jackson Collection is a compilation album by American singer Rebbie Jackson. The compilation was issued in 1996 throughout Europe due to Jackson's popularity in the rare groove scene in the 90's. It includes songs from her three 80's albums, mainly ballads and mid-tempo album tracks. Also included is her signature hit, Centipede. For collectors, the album also includes the rare song Eternal Love, originally released as the b-side of her single A Fork in the Road.
Rebbie Jackson  The Rebbie Jackson Collection  The Rebbie Jackson Collection is a compilation album by American singer Rebbie Jackson. The compilation was issued in 1996 throughout Europe due to Jackson's popularity in the rare groove scene in the 90's. It includes songs from her three 80's albums, mainly ballads and mid-tempo album tracks. Also included is her signature hit, Centipede. For collectors, the album also includes the rare song Eternal Love, originally released as the b-side of her single A Fork in the Road.
Regina Spektor  Soviet Kitsch  Soviet Kitsch is the third album by Regina Spektor. The title is drawn from Milan Kundera's expression for the vacuous aesthetics of communism, a theme in his book The Unbearable Lightness of Being. One version of the album was released with a bonus DVD, which included a short promotional film titled The Survival Guide to Soviet Kitsch and the music video for the song Us. In 2009, the album was included in NME's list of 100 greatest albums of the decade.
Regina Spektor  11:11 (Regina Spektor album)  11:11 is the debut album by singer-songwriter Regina Spektor. It was self-released on CD and sold at Spektor's early shows. The album is now out of print on CD but is available in online music outlets such as the iTunes Music Store and Amazon MP3. Among the fan community, hard copies of this album have become sought after due to their scarcity. Love Affair, Braille, and Sunshine were taken from her 1999 demo cassette.
Regina Spektor  Songs (Regina Spektor album)  Songs is the second album by singer-songwriter Regina Spektor. The album was recorded in its entirety on Christmas Day of 2001; all songs were recorded in one take. Self-released copies of the album were sold at Spektor's early live shows, but the album is now available for purchase periodically at the independent CD retailer CDBaby. com.
Regina Spektor  Live at Bull Moose  The Live at Bull Moose EP was recorded live by Regina Spektor at Bull Moose, a CD, DVD and video game store in Scarborough, Maine on June 5, 2005. It was distributed exclusively through independent record stores.
Regina Spektor  Mary Ann Meets the Gravediggers and Other Short Stories  Mary Ann Meets The Gravediggers And Other Short Stories is a compilation album by Regina Spektor, released in 2006 for the UK
Regina Spektor  Begin to Hope  Begin to Hope is the fourth album by Russian-American singer-songwriter, Regina Spektor. It was released June 13, 2006. The album debuted at number 70 on the Billboard 200, but due to the popularity of the single Fidelity, it peaked at number 20 and was labeled a pace setter by Billboard. Rolling Stone magazine named it the 21st-best album of 2006. The album was certified Gold by the RIAA for shipments to U.S. retailers of 500,000 units. The album was nominated for the 2007 Shortlist Music Prize.
Regina Spektor  Live in California 2006 EP  Live in California 2006 EP is a live EP by Regina Spektor, recorded in California.
Regina Spektor  Far (album)  Far is the fifth studio album by American alternative singer-songwriter Regina Spektor, released in Europe through Sire Records on June 22, 2009 and North America on June 23, 2009 The album's first single, Laughing With, was uploaded to Spektor's MySpace page on May 8 and was released as a digital download on May 18 in the United States and parts of Europe, along with the b-side Blue Lips. Two viral videos for Dance Anthem of the 80s and Eet were also released on Spektor's MySpace account. The official music video for Laughing With was released on iTunes on May 26, 2009. A special edition of the album was released with two bonus tracks and a DVD, which included four music videos. Spektor decided to work with multiple producers on the album. She has compared composing an album to taking a class, and as such, she wanted to have multiple professors. She also felt the multiple producers would allow them not to worry what the single or big hit would be. The most notable producers include David Kahne, who produced her last album Begin to Hope, and Jeff Lynne, former member of Electric Light Orchestra and The Traveling Wilburys. Although Lynne has an expansive musical background, Spektor did not know of his work when she originally met him.
Richard Marx  Paid Vacation (album)  Paid Vacation is the fourth studio album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx. The album's first single Now And Forever
Richard Marx  Repeat Offender  Repeat Offender is the second studio album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx. Released in mid-1989, it replaced Prince
Richard Marx  Rush Street (album)  Rush Street is the third studio album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx. Released in late 1991, it sold over two-million copies in the United States alone. Its first single, Keep Coming Back
Richard Marx  Greatest Hits (Richard Marx album)  Greatest Hits is the third compilation album by Richard Marx. Released in 1997, this greatest hits package was the last recording for Marx as a Capitol Records artist. This album contains fourteen of Marx's hit releases, including Touch Of Heaven, a promotional single from the album Flesh &amp; Bone
Richard Marx  Richard Marx (album)  Richard Marx is the eponymous debut album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx. Released in 1987, Marx became the first solo artist in recording history to reach the top three of the Billboard Hot 100 with four singles from a debut album, including his first number one Pop single Hold On to the Nights in mid-1988. The album's first single Don't Mean Nothing' charted at number one on Billboard's Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart in 1987.
Richard Marx  Flesh And Bone (album)  Flesh and Bone is the fifth studio album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx. It was released in 1997 and was Marx's final studio album released on the Capitol Records imprint. (Marx returned to EMI-Capitol in 2004. ) This album charted at number 70 on the Billboard
Richard Marx  Days in Avalon  Days In Avalon is the sixth studio album by singer/songwriter Richard Marx, released independently in 2000 on the now defunct label Signal 21. This was the only release on the label created by Marx and Blood, Sweat, and Tears drummer Bobby Colomby. The title track, Days In Avalon, was the only song within the album to generate airplay. The song spent twelve weeks on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart, peaking at #25.
Richard Marx  My Own Best Enemy  My Own Best Enemy is the seventh studio album by soft rock singer/songwriter Richard Marx. The album hit #126 on the Billboard album chart in 2004. The album produced two singles, When You're Gone and Ready To Fly.  Both of them reached the 'Hot Adult Top 40' chart. Ready To Fly also hit #22 on the 'Adult contemporary' chart. The album marked a return to the microphone for Marx, who had spent the early-2000s as a successful songwriter and producer, after the comparatively weak commercial reception of his last album in 2000.
Richard Marx  Duo (album)  Duo is a compilation album by Richard Marx (a sixth for Marx) and, Vertical Horizon band member, Matt Scannell. The disc debuted on May 12, 2008, exclusively through RichardMarx. com and is now available for sale at their concerts together as well. Marx and Scannell exhibit both of their acclaimed works. Marx remade a version of Always On Your Mind, for his most recent album Sundown. The disc is predominantly done on acoustic guitar aside from the track Give You Back performed on piano. This album did not contain a personal dedication from either artist.
Richard Marx  Greatest Hits (Richard Marx album: Avon release)  Greatest Hits is the first compilation disc by Richard Marx sold through Avon. This album contains every single released from Marx's first three discs, including the bonus single, Calling You, from the album Rush Street.
Richard Marx  The Best of Richard Marx  The Best of Richard Marx is the fourth compilation album of Richard Marx released by EMI. This album contains a variety of Marx's popular chart hits.
Richard Marx  Emotional Remains  Emotional Remains is the eighth studio album by Richard Marx which was released digitally on October 31, 2008 on Marx's website. Emotional Remains was released simultaneously with Sundown and was re-released through Amazon. com on September 22, 2009 with two new tracks.
Richard Marx  Sundown (Richard Marx album)  Sundown is the ninth studio album by Richard Marx that was released digitally on October 31, 2008. Sundown was released along with Emotional Remains.
Richard Marx  Ballads (Richard Marx album)  Ballads is the second compilation album by Richard Marx. This disc features ten of Marx's ballads including one live and one previously released non-single track.
Richard Marx  Timeline (Richard Marx album)  Timeline is the fifth compilation album released by Richard Marx shortly after the release of Days In Avalon. It includes some of Marx's popular songs including a medley of all of Marx's singles at the time of this album's release.
Richard Marx  Live in USA 1988/92  Live In USA 1988/92 is a live album by Richard Marx released by Arriba Records. It includes ten songs from Marx's first three albums that he performed live plus one cover song, Wonderful World. Each of the songs were performed in different venues.
Richard Marx  Channel V at the Hard Rock Live (Richard Marx album)  Channel V At The Hard Rock Live is the third live album released by Richard Marx.
Richard Marx  The Music of Richard Marx: 1987–2009  The Music Of Richard Marx: 1987-2009 is a multi-disc promotional compilation album of Richard Marx released by Chrysalis Music Group. This is Marx's seventh overall compilation album, but his first multi-disc compilation. It includes most of his singles from 1987 through 1997, some albums cuts from 1996 through 2004, four acoustic versions of some older songs, and a new version of You Never Take Me Dancing.  There was no personal dedication on this album.
Richard Marx  Live Music Hall Koln 1992  Live Music Hall Koln 1992 is a live album by Richard Marx released exclusively in Germany. The concert was recorded at the Live Music Hall in Cologne, Germany.
Richard Marx  Stories to Tell  Stories To Tell is an acoustic album released by Richard Marx featuring several songs from his previous albums. It is his eighth overall compilation album.
Richard Marx  Hits & Ballads  Hits &amp; Ballads is a double disc compilation album released by Richard Marx exclusively in Taiwan, featuring several songs spanning his career, a few new songs, and one cover. It is his ninth overall compilation album, and second double disc compilation album.
Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin (1999 album)  Ricky Martin is the fifth album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin released on Columbia Records subsidiary C2 Records on May 11, 1999 (see 1999 in music
Ricky Martin  La Historia (Ricky Martin album)  La Historia is a 2001 compilation album by singer Ricky Martin by Sony Discos. The recordings are only in Spanish (though the version of the song María featured in this album is the Spanglish radio edit version). It encompasses five of his first six albums A Medio Vivir (María, A Medio Vivir, Volverás, Fuego de Noche, Nieve de Día, Bombón de Azúcar, Te Extraño, Te Olvido, Te Amo), Vuelve (Vuelve, La Bomba, Perdido Sin Tí, La Copa de la Vida, Por Arriba, Por Abajo), and Spanish singles from Ricky Martin, and Sound Loaded. No song from Martin's second album Me Amarás was included in this compilation. The album contained reworkings of two of his early songs Fuego Contra Fuego and El Amor de Mi Vida from Ricky Martin.
Ricky Martin  Sound Loaded  Sound Loaded is the sixth album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, released by Columbia Records on November 6, 2000. The album has been credited with worldwide sales of over seven million copies and went Multi-Platinum in the U.S. and several other territories. This album is Martin's fourth marketed in the United States, and is his second album in English. It includes the hit singles She Bangs and Nobody Wants to Be Lonely. When Nobody Wants to Be Lonely was released as the album's second single, it was turned into a duet between Martin and Christina Aguilera. During the single's release, the album was sold together with the single, as Aguilera does not feature on the album version of the song. Later shipments of the album featured the Aguilera duet in a slightly different tracklist. Four years after the album's release, in 2004, its lead single, She Bangs, came to prominence again after it was performed during a failed American Idol audition by William Hung.
Ricky Martin  A Medio Vivir  A Medio Vivir is the third album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin. It has a hard rock edge, yet also features such Latin styles as flamenco and cumbia. It was released by Sony Latin on September 12, 1995. It has been credited for worldwide sales of over 7,000,000 copies. This album is the first album by Martin that was packaged and sent to the United States. The album, particularly the single Maria, was a hit amongst the Latin Americans
Ricky Martin  Vuelve (album)  Vuelve (Spanish for Come Back or Return) is the fourth album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin released by Sony Discos on February 10, 1998, it has been credited for worldwide sales of over 8,000,000 copies. This album is Ricky’s second which was marketed in the United States. The album was such a hit amongst the Latin Americans
Ricky Martin  Me Amarás  Me Amarás (Spanish for You'll Love Me) is the second studio album by Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, was released on May 25, 1993 by Sony Music Mexico and later globally by Sony Latin. Worldwide sales have surpassed one million copies. The album was produced by Juan Carlos Calderón, who wrote all the songs in this album, except for a Spanish version of Laura Branigan's song Self Control titled Que Día Es Hoy, and a Spanish version of Hooray! Hooray! It's a Holi-Holiday. Three songs of this album (Me Amarás, Que Día Es Hoy and Entre el Amor y los Halagos), were released as singles.
Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin (1991 album)  Ricky Martin is the debut album by Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, released on November 6, 1991 by Sony Music Mexico and later on Sony Latin. It sold over 500,000 copies worldwide.
Ricky Martin  Almas del Silencio  Almas del Silencio is the seventh album and the first Spanish language album by Ricky Martin since 1998's Vuelve
Ricky Martin  The Best of Ricky Martin  The Best of Ricky Martin is the second compilation album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin released by Columbia Records on October 30, 2001. It has been credited for worldwide sales of over 1,000,000 copies.
Ricky Martin  Life (Ricky Martin album)  returned to the music business with Life, his eighth album and his first English language CD in five years, his last being 2000 Sound Loaded. He also co-wrote most of the songs on Life. Martin feels that this album is one of his most personal releases to date, explaining, I was really in touch with my emotions. I think this album is very multi-layered, just like life is. It's about feeling anger. It's about feeling joy. It's about feeling uncertainty. It's about feeling. And all my emotions are part of this production.  Life was released by Sony Music on October 10, 2005 in Europe, October 11, 2005 in the U.S. and October 19, 2005 in Japan. The Album was recorded in the United States of America and Egypt.
Ricky Martin  MTV Unplugged (Ricky Martin album)  Ricky Martin MTV Unplugged is a live album by Ricky Martin released on November 7, 2006 in CD and DVD formats by Sony BMG Norte.
Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin Live: Black & White Tour  Ricky Martin Live Black &amp; White Tour is the second live album by Ricky Martin, released by Sony BMG Norte. It was recorded during his performances at the José Miguel Agrelot Coliseum in Puerto Rico on August 10 and August 11, 2007 as a part of his worldwide tour Black &amp; White. Like his previous album, MTV Unplugged this album was released in a CD/DVD format, DVD and CD. It's also Martin's first ever Blu-ray Disc release. The song Somos la Semilla, first included on his album A Medio Vivir, was released to radio stations to promote the album.
Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin 17  Ricky Martin 17 is the greatest hits album by the Puerto Rican singer Ricky Martin, and his third compilation album. It includes seventeen songs from his seventeen years of career, and it was released by Sony BMG Norte and Columbia on November 18, 2008.
Ricky Martin  The Ricky Martin Video Collection  The Ricky Martin Video Collection is a collection of videos by pop singer Ricky Martin released by Columbia Records subsidiary C2 Records and Sony Music Video Enterprises. The collection went platinum within its first week of release.
Ricky Martin  One Night Only (Ricky Martin video)  One Night Only is a DVD of Ricky Martin's concert tour that was released in the United States in December 1999. It was certified Platinum by the RIAA on May 31, 2000.
Ricky Martin  Hit Collection 2000  She Bangs 4:43 Private Emotion 4:04 Shake Your Bon-Bon 3:14 Saint Tropez 4:50 Livin' La Vida Loca 4:05 Come to Be 4:35 The Cup of Life 4:41 You Stay with Me 4:14 Loaded 3:54 Be Careful 4:06 Spanish Eyes 4:07 Nobody Wants to Be Lonely 5:06 Maria 4:36 The Touch 4:29 I Count the Minutes 4:20 One Night Man 3:50 She's All I Ever Had 4:57 She Bangs [Spanish Version] 4:36
Ringo Starr  Ringo (album)  Ringo (rendered as Ringo on the record label and the spine of the album cover as well as in many published discographies, such as All Together Now by Castleman &amp; Podrazik) is the third album by Ringo Starr, released in 1973 on Apple Records
Richard Starkey  Ringo (album)  Ringo (rendered as Ringo on the record label and the spine of the album cover as well as in many published discographies, such as All Together Now by Castleman &amp; Podrazik) is the third album by Ringo Starr, released in 1973 on Apple Records
Ringo Starr  Choose Love  Choose Love is the 13th studio album by Ringo Starr, released in 2005. Recorded throughout 2004 into 2005, the album received strong reviews upon its release and preceded another promotional tour with Starr and his studio band, called The Roundheads. Using the same team that created Vertical Man and Ringo Rama, Starr produced the set with longtime musical partner Mark Hudson and performed it with their studio team. As ever, a Ringo Starr album would be lacking if it did not include some celebrity guests and Choose Love does not deviate from the formula; it features Billy Preston and Chrissie Hynde as its most notable guests. Choose Love was initially released as a dual disc (CD on side, DVD on the other), with the DVD component featuring bonus features on the making of the album. Choose Love failed to chart in the UK and even the US, where both Vertical Man and Ringo Rama had seen a measure of commercial success.
Richard Starkey  Choose Love  Choose Love is the 13th studio album by Ringo Starr, released in 2005. Recorded throughout 2004 into 2005, the album received strong reviews upon its release and preceded another promotional tour with Starr and his studio band, called The Roundheads. Using the same team that created Vertical Man and Ringo Rama, Starr produced the set with longtime musical partner Mark Hudson and performed it with their studio team. As ever, a Ringo Starr album would be lacking if it did not include some celebrity guests and Choose Love does not deviate from the formula; it features Billy Preston and Chrissie Hynde as its most notable guests. Choose Love was initially released as a dual disc (CD on side, DVD on the other), with the DVD component featuring bonus features on the making of the album. Choose Love failed to chart in the UK and even the US, where both Vertical Man and Ringo Rama had seen a measure of commercial success.
Ringo Starr  Tour 2003  Tour 2003 is a live album by Ringo Starr and was released in 2004. After releasing Ringo Rama in 2003, Starr embarked once more with his All-Starr Band and its ever-changing collective of musicians that summer. The performance included here is from the opening night of his tour at the Casino Rama, just outside Toronto, Ontario in Canada. Despite this, the CD booklet for Tour 2003 confusingly carries a review for a later August show in Detroit. As ever, the line-up of Starr's celebrity companions has changed once again. Bandleader Mark Rivera remains, as does singing percussionist Sheila E. New to the mix are Paul Carrack of Squeeze and Mike &amp; The Mechanics fame, Colin Hay from Australian band Men at Work and John Waite, a solo artist who also had fronted The Babys and Bad English. Having already exhausted the appearances of most of his 1960s and 1970s contemporaries, Starr's new participants clearly add a strong 1980s element to Tour 2003, giving this recording a different edge. While Starr typically performs his well-known hits from his heyday, he does venture here to include Memphis In Your Mind from Ringo Rama. Some critics were quick to note that this live album was Starr's seventh official release of the sort in fourteen years. Tour 2003 generally received lackluster reviews upon release. The release failed to chart.
Richard Starkey  Tour 2003  Tour 2003 is a live album by Ringo Starr and was released in 2004. After releasing Ringo Rama in 2003, Starr embarked once more with his All-Starr Band and its ever-changing collective of musicians that summer. The performance included here is from the opening night of his tour at the Casino Rama, just outside Toronto, Ontario in Canada. Despite this, the CD booklet for Tour 2003 confusingly carries a review for a later August show in Detroit. As ever, the line-up of Starr's celebrity companions has changed once again. Bandleader Mark Rivera remains, as does singing percussionist Sheila E. New to the mix are Paul Carrack of Squeeze and Mike &amp; The Mechanics fame, Colin Hay from Australian band Men at Work and John Waite, a solo artist who also had fronted The Babys and Bad English. Having already exhausted the appearances of most of his 1960s and 1970s contemporaries, Starr's new participants clearly add a strong 1980s element to Tour 2003, giving this recording a different edge. While Starr typically performs his well-known hits from his heyday, he does venture here to include Memphis In Your Mind from Ringo Rama. Some critics were quick to note that this live album was Starr's seventh official release of the sort in fourteen years. Tour 2003 generally received lackluster reviews upon release. The release failed to chart.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Rama  Ringo Rama is Ringo Starr's 12th studio album and was released in 2003. As the follow-up to 1998's Vertical Man, it continues Starr's alliance with Mark Hudson as well as most of his collaborators from that last project. Ringo Rama is also Starr's first release under his new contract with Koch Records. Not straying too far from his tried and tested formula, Starr engaged the services of some of his famous musician friends for Ringo Rama. Contributors this time around include Willie Nelson, Charlie Haden, Van Dyke Parks, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour, Shawn Colvin, Timothy B. Schmit and Eric Clapton. With George Harrison
Richard Starkey  Ringo Rama  Ringo Rama is Ringo Starr's 12th studio album and was released in 2003. As the follow-up to 1998's Vertical Man, it continues Starr's alliance with Mark Hudson as well as most of his collaborators from that last project. Ringo Rama is also Starr's first release under his new contract with Koch Records. Not straying too far from his tried and tested formula, Starr engaged the services of some of his famous musician friends for Ringo Rama. Contributors this time around include Willie Nelson, Charlie Haden, Van Dyke Parks, Pink Floyd's David Gilmour, Shawn Colvin, Timothy B. Schmit and Eric Clapton. With George Harrison
Ringo Starr  Beaucoups of Blues  Beaucoups of Blues is the second album by former Beatles member Ringo Starr, and also his second full-length release in 1970, coming after his debut Sentimental Journey. However, Beaucoups of Blues is very far removed in style from its predecessor. While playing on sessions for George Harrison's All Things Must Pass (the recording of which began on 26 May), Starr—a long-time country and western fan—met Pete Drake, whom Harrison had called upon to play pedal steel guitar. Realizing Drake's deep connection to country, Starr asked him if they could collaborate on an album together. Drake promptly told Starr his musician friends could compose more than an album's worth of material from which Starr could pick his favourites and record his vocals. Starr was very keen and agreed. He flew to Nashville on 22 June to begin working on the project. While most of the tracks were cut in two days (30 June and 1 July), Drake had produced some earlier sessions with The Jordanaires
Richard Starkey  Beaucoups of Blues  Beaucoups of Blues is the second album by former Beatles member Ringo Starr, and also his second full-length release in 1970, coming after his debut Sentimental Journey. However, Beaucoups of Blues is very far removed in style from its predecessor. While playing on sessions for George Harrison's All Things Must Pass (the recording of which began on 26 May), Starr—a long-time country and western fan—met Pete Drake, whom Harrison had called upon to play pedal steel guitar. Realizing Drake's deep connection to country, Starr asked him if they could collaborate on an album together. Drake promptly told Starr his musician friends could compose more than an album's worth of material from which Starr could pick his favourites and record his vocals. Starr was very keen and agreed. He flew to Nashville on 22 June to begin working on the project. While most of the tracks were cut in two days (30 June and 1 July), Drake had produced some earlier sessions with The Jordanaires
Ringo Starr  Sentimental Journey (Ringo Starr album)  Sentimental Journey is the first solo album by former Beatles drummer Ringo Starr, released in 1970, as the band was splintering apart. Although Starr was the third member of the group to issue solo work, Sentimental Journey is notable for being the first non avant-garde studio album by a member of the band, in light of the experimental, soundtrack or live releases his aforementioned bandmates had already released. Paul McCartney's debut, McCartney, would follow three weeks after Sentimental Journey's release. Beginning in October 1969, Starr engaged the services of Beatles producer George Martin to helm his solo debut. The idea, thematic in approach, was to create an album of standards that would reflect his parents' favourite songs, even asking them and other members of his family to choose the tracks. In addition, he would have one song each arranged by different musicians, ranging from Martin himself, Paul McCartney, Maurice Gibb, Quincy Jones and old friend of the Beatles from Hamburg (and bassist with Manfred Mann) Klaus Voormann, among others. Although begun during the sessions, Starr's own composition, It Don't Come Easy, would appear as a single in 1971. Recording of the album was completed in March 1970, with Sentimental Journey being rushed out merely two weeks later in order to avoid clashing in the shops with the Beatles' impending final album Let It Be
Richard Starkey  Sentimental Journey (Ringo Starr album)  Sentimental Journey is the first solo album by former Beatles drummer Ringo Starr, released in 1970, as the band was splintering apart. Although Starr was the third member of the group to issue solo work, Sentimental Journey is notable for being the first non avant-garde studio album by a member of the band, in light of the experimental, soundtrack or live releases his aforementioned bandmates had already released. Paul McCartney's debut, McCartney, would follow three weeks after Sentimental Journey's release. Beginning in October 1969, Starr engaged the services of Beatles producer George Martin to helm his solo debut. The idea, thematic in approach, was to create an album of standards that would reflect his parents' favourite songs, even asking them and other members of his family to choose the tracks. In addition, he would have one song each arranged by different musicians, ranging from Martin himself, Paul McCartney, Maurice Gibb, Quincy Jones and old friend of the Beatles from Hamburg (and bassist with Manfred Mann) Klaus Voormann, among others. Although begun during the sessions, Starr's own composition, It Don't Come Easy, would appear as a single in 1971. Recording of the album was completed in March 1970, with Sentimental Journey being rushed out merely two weeks later in order to avoid clashing in the shops with the Beatles' impending final album Let It Be
Ringo Starr  Goodnight Vienna  Goodnight Vienna is the fourth solo album by Ringo Starr. It was recorded in the summer of 1974 in Los Angeles, and released later that year. It followed the commercially successful predecessor Ringo, and Starr used many of the same players, including Billy Preston, Klaus Voormann, Robbie Robertson, Harry Nilsson, and producer Richard Perry. The title comes from an English slang phrase meaning roughly, It's all over.  While all three other Beatles had contributed to Ringo, only John Lennon contributed to Goodnight Vienna. Like Ringo, Goodnight Vienna also became a hit, though a slightly less successful one. An advance single from the album, Starr's cover version of The Platters' Only You (And You Alone)
Richard Starkey  Goodnight Vienna  Goodnight Vienna is the fourth solo album by Ringo Starr. It was recorded in the summer of 1974 in Los Angeles, and released later that year. It followed the commercially successful predecessor Ringo, and Starr used many of the same players, including Billy Preston, Klaus Voormann, Robbie Robertson, Harry Nilsson, and producer Richard Perry. The title comes from an English slang phrase meaning roughly, It's all over.  While all three other Beatles had contributed to Ringo, only John Lennon contributed to Goodnight Vienna. Like Ringo, Goodnight Vienna also became a hit, though a slightly less successful one. An advance single from the album, Starr's cover version of The Platters' Only You (And You Alone)
Ringo Starr  Blast from Your Past  Blast From Your Past is a singles compilation album by Ringo Starr, released on Apple Records in 1975. It is both Starr's first compilation LP and his final release under his contract with EMI, the last album to be released on The Beatles' Apple label until it was revived in the 1990s. In 1976, Starr would sign with Atlantic Records in the US and Polydor Records for the rest of the world. The album compiles eight singles, one B-side, and one album track, released between 1970 and 1975. All eight charted on the Billboard Hot 100, with all but Beaucoups of Blues making the top ten. Both Photograph and You're Sixteen topped the chart, while five of the singles charted in the United Kingdom. Early 1970 was the flipside to It Don't Come Easy, and I'm the Greatest was taken from the album Ringo. Oh My My and You're Sixteen were taken from the Ringo album as well, and No No Song and Only You (And You Alone) was taken from the LP Goodnight Vienna
Richard Starkey  Blast from Your Past  Blast From Your Past is a singles compilation album by Ringo Starr, released on Apple Records in 1975. It is both Starr's first compilation LP and his final release under his contract with EMI, the last album to be released on The Beatles' Apple label until it was revived in the 1990s. In 1976, Starr would sign with Atlantic Records in the US and Polydor Records for the rest of the world. The album compiles eight singles, one B-side, and one album track, released between 1970 and 1975. All eight charted on the Billboard Hot 100, with all but Beaucoups of Blues making the top ten. Both Photograph and You're Sixteen topped the chart, while five of the singles charted in the United Kingdom. Early 1970 was the flipside to It Don't Come Easy, and I'm the Greatest was taken from the album Ringo. Oh My My and You're Sixteen were taken from the Ringo album as well, and No No Song and Only You (And You Alone) was taken from the LP Goodnight Vienna
Ringo Starr  Vertical Man  Vertical Man is Ringo Starr's 11th studio album, issued in 1998. The release represents Starr's attempt at a comeback following the enormous success of The Beatles Anthology project. Like some of his best-loved projects, Starr would engage the help of many of his musician friends in making Vertical Man. Following 1992's Time Takes Time, Starr began a musical partnership with musician and songwriter Mark Hudson which lasted until a split during the sessions for what would become Liverpool 8. The album being Re-Produced by Dave Stewart, Beatles engineer Geoff Emerick to mix the tracks, with Starr and Hudson producing, Vertical Man was cut sporadically mostly in 1997. Among the celebrity guests were Scott Weiland, Brian Wilson, Alanis Morissette, Ozzy Osbourne, Tom Petty, Joe Walsh, Timothy B. Schmit, Aerosmith's Steven Tyler (with whom Hudson had composed Livin' On The Edge), and last but not least, Paul McCartney and George Harrison. With The Beatles' fame having extended to newer and younger fans, thanks to the recent Anthology, it was reasoned that Starr would benefit from the exposure; McCartney's Flaming Pie had done very well upon its 1997 release. With Starr newly signed to a worldwide major label deal with Mercury Records
Richard Starkey  Vertical Man  Vertical Man is Ringo Starr's 11th studio album, issued in 1998. The release represents Starr's attempt at a comeback following the enormous success of The Beatles Anthology project. Like some of his best-loved projects, Starr would engage the help of many of his musician friends in making Vertical Man. Following 1992's Time Takes Time, Starr began a musical partnership with musician and songwriter Mark Hudson which lasted until a split during the sessions for what would become Liverpool 8. The album being Re-Produced by Dave Stewart, Beatles engineer Geoff Emerick to mix the tracks, with Starr and Hudson producing, Vertical Man was cut sporadically mostly in 1997. Among the celebrity guests were Scott Weiland, Brian Wilson, Alanis Morissette, Ozzy Osbourne, Tom Petty, Joe Walsh, Timothy B. Schmit, Aerosmith's Steven Tyler (with whom Hudson had composed Livin' On The Edge), and last but not least, Paul McCartney and George Harrison. With The Beatles' fame having extended to newer and younger fans, thanks to the recent Anthology, it was reasoned that Starr would benefit from the exposure; McCartney's Flaming Pie had done very well upon its 1997 release. With Starr newly signed to a worldwide major label deal with Mercury Records
Ringo Starr  VH1 Storytellers (Ringo Starr album)  VH1 Storytellers is a live album by Ringo Starr recorded and released for the popular music program in 1998. Unlike his previous live recordings, this release places Starr in an intimate environment where—as per the show's requirement—he tells the genesis of the songs being performed. Recorded a month before the release of Starr's new studio album Vertical Man—and performed in promotion for it—VH1 Storytellers features Starr's contemporary musical collaborator Mark Hudson (who produced this set) and Starr's current band, dubbed The Roundheads. Aside from songs that appeared on Vertical Man, much of the set is devoted to Starr's Beatles and early solo successes with Starr relating their stories in a relaxed, and sometimes humorous, fashion. This marked the last time a Ringo Starr album (on CD) was released on a pre-recorded cassette in the United States according to journalist Peter Palmiere. However, some countries in the Far East still issue cassettes of recent Ringo Starr material including Ringo Rama, Choose Love and Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr. Released that October, VH1 Storytellers stands as a unique release in Ringo Starr's recorded catalogue. Although it failed to chart anywhere, it was well-received critically.
Richard Starkey  VH1 Storytellers (Ringo Starr album)  VH1 Storytellers is a live album by Ringo Starr recorded and released for the popular music program in 1998. Unlike his previous live recordings, this release places Starr in an intimate environment where—as per the show's requirement—he tells the genesis of the songs being performed. Recorded a month before the release of Starr's new studio album Vertical Man—and performed in promotion for it—VH1 Storytellers features Starr's contemporary musical collaborator Mark Hudson (who produced this set) and Starr's current band, dubbed The Roundheads. Aside from songs that appeared on Vertical Man, much of the set is devoted to Starr's Beatles and early solo successes with Starr relating their stories in a relaxed, and sometimes humorous, fashion. This marked the last time a Ringo Starr album (on CD) was released on a pre-recorded cassette in the United States according to journalist Peter Palmiere. However, some countries in the Far East still issue cassettes of recent Ringo Starr material including Ringo Rama, Choose Love and Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr. Released that October, VH1 Storytellers stands as a unique release in Ringo Starr's recorded catalogue. Although it failed to chart anywhere, it was well-received critically.
Ringo Starr  I Wanna Be Santa Claus  I Wanna Be Santa Claus is a Christmas album by Ringo Starr, issued in 1999. Not only is it Starr's first long-play Christmas release, it is the first by an ex-Beatle, although John Lennon, Paul McCartney and George Harrison had each released a seasonal single in the 1970s. Recorded throughout 1999 with Starr's musical partner Mark Hudson and many of his collaborators on 1998's Vertical Man, I Wanna Be Santa Claus—which is composed of well-known traditional songs and some new originals—was made in several studios in the US and UK, with their families joining in and including two notable celebrity guests, Aerosmith's Joe Perry and former Eagles member Timothy B. Schmit. Released in October ahead of the Christmas season, I Wanna Be Santa Claus was not a commercial success, despite its strong reviews. It was deleted shortly thereafter and re-released in 2003 as a discounted collection entitled 20th Century Masters: The Best Of Ringo Starr/The Christmas Collection with the exact same tracklisting. After three albums in a row that failed to reach consumers in a significant way, Mercury Records dropped Starr from their roster.
Richard Starkey  I Wanna Be Santa Claus  I Wanna Be Santa Claus is a Christmas album by Ringo Starr, issued in 1999. Not only is it Starr's first long-play Christmas release, it is the first by an ex-Beatle, although John Lennon, Paul McCartney and George Harrison had each released a seasonal single in the 1970s. Recorded throughout 1999 with Starr's musical partner Mark Hudson and many of his collaborators on 1998's Vertical Man, I Wanna Be Santa Claus—which is composed of well-known traditional songs and some new originals—was made in several studios in the US and UK, with their families joining in and including two notable celebrity guests, Aerosmith's Joe Perry and former Eagles member Timothy B. Schmit. Released in October ahead of the Christmas season, I Wanna Be Santa Claus was not a commercial success, despite its strong reviews. It was deleted shortly thereafter and re-released in 2003 as a discounted collection entitled 20th Century Masters: The Best Of Ringo Starr/The Christmas Collection with the exact same tracklisting. After three albums in a row that failed to reach consumers in a significant way, Mercury Records dropped Starr from their roster.
Ringo Starr  The Anthology... So Far  The Anthology... So Far is a triple live compilation album by Ringo Starr which was released in 2001. Rounding up the bulk of the material on 1990's Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band, 1993's Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux and 1997's Ringo Starr and His Third All-Starr Band-Volume 1 - in addition to previously unheard material recorded live in 1995, 1997 and 2000, The Anthology... So Far stands as an exhaustive collection of Starr's concert highlights spanning a decade. Over the course of the collection Starr is joined by Randy Bachman, Gary Brooker, Jack Bruce, Tim Cappello, Eric Carmen, Felix Cavaliere, Clarence Clemons, Burton Cummings, Rick Danko, Dr. John, Dave Edmunds, John Entwistle, Mark Farner, Peter Frampton, Levon Helm, Jim Keltner, Simon Kirke, Nils Lofgren, Billy Preston, Mark Rivera, Todd Rundgren, Timothy B. Schmit, Zak Starkey and Joe Walsh. Critically well-received, The Anthology... So Far failed to reach the charts upon its release.
Richard Starkey  The Anthology... So Far  The Anthology... So Far is a triple live compilation album by Ringo Starr which was released in 2001. Rounding up the bulk of the material on 1990's Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band, 1993's Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux and 1997's Ringo Starr and His Third All-Starr Band-Volume 1 - in addition to previously unheard material recorded live in 1995, 1997 and 2000, The Anthology... So Far stands as an exhaustive collection of Starr's concert highlights spanning a decade. Over the course of the collection Starr is joined by Randy Bachman, Gary Brooker, Jack Bruce, Tim Cappello, Eric Carmen, Felix Cavaliere, Clarence Clemons, Burton Cummings, Rick Danko, Dr. John, Dave Edmunds, John Entwistle, Mark Farner, Peter Frampton, Levon Helm, Jim Keltner, Simon Kirke, Nils Lofgren, Billy Preston, Mark Rivera, Todd Rundgren, Timothy B. Schmit, Zak Starkey and Joe Walsh. Critically well-received, The Anthology... So Far failed to reach the charts upon its release.
Ringo Starr  Ringo's Rotogravure  Ringo's Rotogravure is an album by Ringo Starr, released in 1976. Following the end of his contract with EMI, Starr signed on with Polydor Records (which once signed a pre-Ringo Beatles as the backing band of Tony Sheridan) worldwide (Atlantic Records handling US distribution) and was eager to see his solo success continue on in a new era. Two years on from 1974's Goodnight Vienna, Starr - armed with new producer Arif Mardin - again stuck to his tried-and-true formula of having friends write songs and play on the recordings. This time, Eric Clapton took part, in addition to Peter Frampton, Melissa Manchester, Dr. John, Paul McCartney and John Lennon (his last studio session for four years until Double Fantasy). George Harrison donated a song too, but because of his commitments to get his album Thirty Three &amp; 1/3 done on schedule, he couldn't take part in any recording for Ringo's Rotogravure. Preceded by A Dose Of Rock 'n' Roll
Richard Starkey  Ringo's Rotogravure  Ringo's Rotogravure is an album by Ringo Starr, released in 1976. Following the end of his contract with EMI, Starr signed on with Polydor Records (which once signed a pre-Ringo Beatles as the backing band of Tony Sheridan) worldwide (Atlantic Records handling US distribution) and was eager to see his solo success continue on in a new era. Two years on from 1974's Goodnight Vienna, Starr - armed with new producer Arif Mardin - again stuck to his tried-and-true formula of having friends write songs and play on the recordings. This time, Eric Clapton took part, in addition to Peter Frampton, Melissa Manchester, Dr. John, Paul McCartney and John Lennon (his last studio session for four years until Double Fantasy). George Harrison donated a song too, but because of his commitments to get his album Thirty Three &amp; 1/3 done on schedule, he couldn't take part in any recording for Ringo's Rotogravure. Preceded by A Dose Of Rock 'n' Roll
Ringo Starr  Ringo the 4th  Ringo the 4th is an album by Ringo Starr and was released in 1977. After the commercial disappointment of Ringo's Rotogravure (1976), Starr decided to shift his formula of using his well-known musician friends (notably his fellow ex-Beatles) to write songs and appear on his albums. Instead, he intensified his partnership with Vini Poncia, with whom he wrote several of the songs featured here, while using the input of different musicians. David Foster played keyboards on a couple of songs, while Melissa Manchester and Bette Midler occasionally appeared on backing vocals. Producer Arif Mardin places Starr in a slick dance-oriented context, but it is not enough to save what are fairly mediocre songs sung by Starr. Why did the album perform so poorly? Journalist Peter Palmiere states in his front cover story on Starr for DISCoveries magazine in January 2003 that The music critics and the record buying public took the album as a joke for Ringo's voice was not suitable for the disco flavored music on Ringo the 4th. Palmiere went on to claim that Ringo the 4th destroyed Starr's career and that he never commercially recovered from it. Ringo the 4th – in fact, his sixth studio album, but his fourth rock
Richard Starkey  Ringo the 4th  Ringo the 4th is an album by Ringo Starr and was released in 1977. After the commercial disappointment of Ringo's Rotogravure (1976), Starr decided to shift his formula of using his well-known musician friends (notably his fellow ex-Beatles) to write songs and appear on his albums. Instead, he intensified his partnership with Vini Poncia, with whom he wrote several of the songs featured here, while using the input of different musicians. David Foster played keyboards on a couple of songs, while Melissa Manchester and Bette Midler occasionally appeared on backing vocals. Producer Arif Mardin places Starr in a slick dance-oriented context, but it is not enough to save what are fairly mediocre songs sung by Starr. Why did the album perform so poorly? Journalist Peter Palmiere states in his front cover story on Starr for DISCoveries magazine in January 2003 that The music critics and the record buying public took the album as a joke for Ringo's voice was not suitable for the disco flavored music on Ringo the 4th. Palmiere went on to claim that Ringo the 4th destroyed Starr's career and that he never commercially recovered from it. Ringo the 4th – in fact, his sixth studio album, but his fourth rock
Ringo Starr  Bad Boy (album)  Bad Boy is an album by Ringo Starr, and was released in 1978 during a period where his musical career was sliding into freefall after several years of solo success. Although Bad Boy was meant to reverse this trend, Starr's fortunes dwindled further. After the critical and commercial disaster of Ringo the 4th (1977), Starr and his musical partner, Vini Poncia, decided to create a less campy album and streamline the sound to lose the disco qualities and excesses that marred the previous release. With Poncia taking the production reins, Starr mostly relies on other people's songs, with no celebrity guests to be found. The album was recorded, for tax purposes, in Vancouver, Toronto, and The Bahamas. It was completed within ten days of sessions in November 1977, with the exception of some orchestral overdubs done on March 8, 1978 under the direction of James Newton Howard
Richard Starkey  Bad Boy (album)  Bad Boy is an album by Ringo Starr, and was released in 1978 during a period where his musical career was sliding into freefall after several years of solo success. Although Bad Boy was meant to reverse this trend, Starr's fortunes dwindled further. After the critical and commercial disaster of Ringo the 4th (1977), Starr and his musical partner, Vini Poncia, decided to create a less campy album and streamline the sound to lose the disco qualities and excesses that marred the previous release. With Poncia taking the production reins, Starr mostly relies on other people's songs, with no celebrity guests to be found. The album was recorded, for tax purposes, in Vancouver, Toronto, and The Bahamas. It was completed within ten days of sessions in November 1977, with the exception of some orchestral overdubs done on March 8, 1978 under the direction of James Newton Howard
Ringo Starr  Old Wave  Old Wave is an album by Ringo Starr, released in 1983 as the follow-up to 1981's Stop and Smell the Roses. In early 1982, Starr was eager to move on to his next project. Deciding that he needed more consistency this time around, he would work with only one producer, Joe Walsh, a former member of the recently disbanded Eagles. Walsh and Starr had known each other since the mid-1970s, having met and befriended each other in Los Angeles. Walsh immediately agreed to work with Starr and they met in February to begin writing material. After John Lennon's murder, Starr no longer felt safe in the US and returned home to England to live at Tittenhurst Park, which Starr purchased from Lennon in 1973. Having converted Lennon's recording studio into Startling Studios, Starr would record his new album there. Beginning in March, Starr was joined not only by Walsh, but Gary Brooker, The Who's John Entwistle, Ray Cooper and Eric Clapton on one track. With none of his usual celebrity mates helping out, this was largely a Starr/Walsh album and the spotlight would be mostly on them. The album's titling of Old Wave is a play on New Wave and an acknowledgment by Starr that an old waver like him is still up to the challenge. As an indication of his vitality, the cover of the album features a (colorized) black and white photo of Starr in his pre-Beatles days. Recording of the album went smoothly and was completed by summer. As Starr's RCA Records contract had been cancelled, he needed to find a new label for Old Wave. Though it was just over a decade after The Beatles' dissolution, no major UK or US record company was interested in signing him. Starr would not accept that and was determined to have Old Wave released any way he could. RCA Records ended up distributing the album in June 1983 in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Holland (which imported German copies and attached a Dutch sticker), Mexico and Brazil, while in Germany, the album and lone single pulled from it appeared on the Bellaphon label. In Mexico, She's About A Mover b/w I Keep Forgettin' was released as a single. However, Old Wave failed to achieve success in any of these territories, and would be Ringo Starr's last studio album until 1992's Time Takes Time. The only 45 pulled from the LP was in Germany: In My Car / As Far As We Can Go. Walsh's 1987 album Got Any Gum? included a cover of In My Car, which was released as a single and became a moderate hit. Old Wave was reissued on CD in the US by Capitol Records in 1994 with the original 1978 recording of As Far As We Can Go as a bonus track, but was deleted some years later.
Richard Starkey  Old Wave  Old Wave is an album by Ringo Starr, released in 1983 as the follow-up to 1981's Stop and Smell the Roses. In early 1982, Starr was eager to move on to his next project. Deciding that he needed more consistency this time around, he would work with only one producer, Joe Walsh, a former member of the recently disbanded Eagles. Walsh and Starr had known each other since the mid-1970s, having met and befriended each other in Los Angeles. Walsh immediately agreed to work with Starr and they met in February to begin writing material. After John Lennon's murder, Starr no longer felt safe in the US and returned home to England to live at Tittenhurst Park, which Starr purchased from Lennon in 1973. Having converted Lennon's recording studio into Startling Studios, Starr would record his new album there. Beginning in March, Starr was joined not only by Walsh, but Gary Brooker, The Who's John Entwistle, Ray Cooper and Eric Clapton on one track. With none of his usual celebrity mates helping out, this was largely a Starr/Walsh album and the spotlight would be mostly on them. The album's titling of Old Wave is a play on New Wave and an acknowledgment by Starr that an old waver like him is still up to the challenge. As an indication of his vitality, the cover of the album features a (colorized) black and white photo of Starr in his pre-Beatles days. Recording of the album went smoothly and was completed by summer. As Starr's RCA Records contract had been cancelled, he needed to find a new label for Old Wave. Though it was just over a decade after The Beatles' dissolution, no major UK or US record company was interested in signing him. Starr would not accept that and was determined to have Old Wave released any way he could. RCA Records ended up distributing the album in June 1983 in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Holland (which imported German copies and attached a Dutch sticker), Mexico and Brazil, while in Germany, the album and lone single pulled from it appeared on the Bellaphon label. In Mexico, She's About A Mover b/w I Keep Forgettin' was released as a single. However, Old Wave failed to achieve success in any of these territories, and would be Ringo Starr's last studio album until 1992's Time Takes Time. The only 45 pulled from the LP was in Germany: In My Car / As Far As We Can Go. Walsh's 1987 album Got Any Gum? included a cover of In My Car, which was released as a single and became a moderate hit. Old Wave was reissued on CD in the US by Capitol Records in 1994 with the original 1978 recording of As Far As We Can Go as a bonus track, but was deleted some years later.
Ringo Starr  Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2  Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 is Ringo Starr's second official compilation album, released in 1989 through the Rhino Records label. The successor to 1975's Blast From Your Past, it rounds up Starr's highlights from 1976's Ringo's Rotogravure to 1983's Old Wave and encompasses label stays with Polydor, Atlantic, Portrait and RCA. Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 was only released in the US. Consequently, it saw the first introduction of four tracks from Old Wave which had not seen issue there up to that time. Never charting anywhere, Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 went out of print during the 1990s.
Richard Starkey  Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2  Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 is Ringo Starr's second official compilation album, released in 1989 through the Rhino Records label. The successor to 1975's Blast From Your Past, it rounds up Starr's highlights from 1976's Ringo's Rotogravure to 1983's Old Wave and encompasses label stays with Polydor, Atlantic, Portrait and RCA. Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 was only released in the US. Consequently, it saw the first introduction of four tracks from Old Wave which had not seen issue there up to that time. Never charting anywhere, Starr Struck: Best of Ringo Starr, Vol. 2 went out of print during the 1990s.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band  Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band is Ringo Starr's first official live album, recorded in 1989 during his successful comeback tour and released in 1990. It was also Starr's first release of unheard material for seven years.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band  Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band is Ringo Starr's first official live album, recorded in 1989 during his successful comeback tour and released in 1990. It was also Starr's first release of unheard material for seven years.
Ringo Starr  Time Takes Time  Time Takes Time is Ringo Starr's 1992 critically acclaimed comeback album. His first studio album since 1983's Old Wave, it followed a successful 1989/1990 world tour with his All-Starr Band. Aligning himself with top producers Don Was, Peter Asher, Phil Ramone and Jeff Lynne, the album was recorded sporadically throughout 1991. The material was written predominantly by outside writers, with Ringo co-writing three songs. Time Takes Time features several celebrity guests including Brian Wilson, Harry Nilsson and Electric Light Orchestra frontman Lynne. Time Takes Time also marked Starr's first alliance with Mark Hudson, both of whom would embark on a long-term musical partnership in the ensuing years. Hudson assisted in vocal arrangements on some of the Phil Ramone-produced tracks. Several tracks were left off the album. A Paul McCartney song entitled Angel in Disguise, to which Ringo added a verse, has not seen the light of day. Ringo covered the Elvis Presley hit Don't Be Cruel which was instead issued as the B-side of the Weight Of The World CD single (except in Japan). Another outtake, Everyone Wins, was issued in Germany as the vinyl B-side of the Don't Go Where The Road Don't Go single. Two more outtakes that never saw the light of day (to date) were a Phil Picket song Love Is Going To Get You, produced by Phil Ramone, and the Jeff Lynne produced Call Me. Lynne told journalist Peter Palmiere as part of a DISCoveries cover story on Ringo that Call Me will never be released at anytime anywhere. Although Starr recorded and released a song on Goodnight Vienna entitled Call Me, it bears no resemblance to the Jeff Lynne-produced number. Well-received upon release, many critics considered Time Takes Time Starr's best album since 1973's Ringo
Richard Starkey  Time Takes Time  Time Takes Time is Ringo Starr's 1992 critically acclaimed comeback album. His first studio album since 1983's Old Wave, it followed a successful 1989/1990 world tour with his All-Starr Band. Aligning himself with top producers Don Was, Peter Asher, Phil Ramone and Jeff Lynne, the album was recorded sporadically throughout 1991. The material was written predominantly by outside writers, with Ringo co-writing three songs. Time Takes Time features several celebrity guests including Brian Wilson, Harry Nilsson and Electric Light Orchestra frontman Lynne. Time Takes Time also marked Starr's first alliance with Mark Hudson, both of whom would embark on a long-term musical partnership in the ensuing years. Hudson assisted in vocal arrangements on some of the Phil Ramone-produced tracks. Several tracks were left off the album. A Paul McCartney song entitled Angel in Disguise, to which Ringo added a verse, has not seen the light of day. Ringo covered the Elvis Presley hit Don't Be Cruel which was instead issued as the B-side of the Weight Of The World CD single (except in Japan). Another outtake, Everyone Wins, was issued in Germany as the vinyl B-side of the Don't Go Where The Road Don't Go single. Two more outtakes that never saw the light of day (to date) were a Phil Picket song Love Is Going To Get You, produced by Phil Ramone, and the Jeff Lynne produced Call Me. Lynne told journalist Peter Palmiere as part of a DISCoveries cover story on Ringo that Call Me will never be released at anytime anywhere. Although Starr recorded and released a song on Goodnight Vienna entitled Call Me, it bears no resemblance to the Jeff Lynne-produced number. Well-received upon release, many critics considered Time Takes Time Starr's best album since 1973's Ringo
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live from Montreux  Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux is Ringo Starr's second official live album and was released in 1993. Following up on 1990s Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band, this new collection highlighted a performance in Montreux in 1992 just following the release of Time Takes Time. Starr was once again supported by his All-Starr Band, but this time the celebrity guests within was shuffled somewhat. Retained from his 1989/1990 inaugural jaunt were Joe Walsh and Nils Lofgren, while newcomers were Burton Cummings, Timothy B. Schmit, Dave Edmunds, Todd Rundgren, Tim Cappello on sax and Starr's own son, Zak Starkey on drums. While Starr performed new material from Time Takes Time, he mostly centered on his Beatles standards on this outing, namely Yellow Submarine, With A Little Help From My Friends and his cover of The Shirelles' Boys, which had been featured on The Beatles' 1963 debut album, Please Please Me. The members of his All-Starr Band also had solo moments throughout the live recording. Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux was released worldwide on Rykodisc, eventually being deleted towards the end of the 1990s. Due to his heavy involvement in The Beatles Anthology, it was Starr's last official release until 1998s Vertical Man. In between these releases, Starr orchestrated a limited edition live release of his 1995 tour exclusively through the Blockbuster video store chain in 1997.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live from Montreux  Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux is Ringo Starr's second official live album and was released in 1993. Following up on 1990s Ringo Starr and His All-Starr Band, this new collection highlighted a performance in Montreux in 1992 just following the release of Time Takes Time. Starr was once again supported by his All-Starr Band, but this time the celebrity guests within was shuffled somewhat. Retained from his 1989/1990 inaugural jaunt were Joe Walsh and Nils Lofgren, while newcomers were Burton Cummings, Timothy B. Schmit, Dave Edmunds, Todd Rundgren, Tim Cappello on sax and Starr's own son, Zak Starkey on drums. While Starr performed new material from Time Takes Time, he mostly centered on his Beatles standards on this outing, namely Yellow Submarine, With A Little Help From My Friends and his cover of The Shirelles' Boys, which had been featured on The Beatles' 1963 debut album, Please Please Me. The members of his All-Starr Band also had solo moments throughout the live recording. Ringo Starr and His All Starr Band Volume 2: Live From Montreux was released worldwide on Rykodisc, eventually being deleted towards the end of the 1990s. Due to his heavy involvement in The Beatles Anthology, it was Starr's last official release until 1998s Vertical Man. In between these releases, Starr orchestrated a limited edition live release of his 1995 tour exclusively through the Blockbuster video store chain in 1997.
Ringo Starr  King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo & His New All-Starr Band  King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band is a live album by Ringo Starr released in 2002. Starr's All-Starr Band was always evolving, although the change in personnel evidenced on this recording is the most dramatic yet. While Mark Rivera remains as Starr's bandleader, the new players for the 2001 US tour here include Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer's Greg Lake, Mott the Hoople's Ian Hunter and - bringing a more updated sound to the precedings - Supertramp's Roger Hodgson, Howard Jones and former Prince bandmember Sheila E.. Starr naturally has the biggest share of the songs, performing his classic hits from the 1960s and 1970s - with the relatively recent Don't Go Where the Road Don't Go from 1992's Time Takes Time, with all his celebrity guests each having their moment in the spotlight. King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band was fairly well-received by the critics upon its August 2002 release, though again, it failed to reach the charts.
Richard Starkey  King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo & His New All-Starr Band  King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band is a live album by Ringo Starr released in 2002. Starr's All-Starr Band was always evolving, although the change in personnel evidenced on this recording is the most dramatic yet. While Mark Rivera remains as Starr's bandleader, the new players for the 2001 US tour here include Emerson, Lake &amp; Palmer's Greg Lake, Mott the Hoople's Ian Hunter and - bringing a more updated sound to the precedings - Supertramp's Roger Hodgson, Howard Jones and former Prince bandmember Sheila E.. Starr naturally has the biggest share of the songs, performing his classic hits from the 1960s and 1970s - with the relatively recent Don't Go Where the Road Don't Go from 1992's Time Takes Time, with all his celebrity guests each having their moment in the spotlight. King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band was fairly well-received by the critics upon its August 2002 release, though again, it failed to reach the charts.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr and His Third All-Starr Band-Volume 1  Ringo Starr and His third All-Starr Band-Volume 1 was a limited edition live album by Ringo Starr, and his All Starr band, recorded at the Nippon Budokan, Tokyo, Japan. The album was released as a promotion by Blockbuster videos for only $5.99. The All-Starr Band included the return of the keyboardist Billy Preston and Ringo's son Zak. A Volume 2 was never made.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr and His Third All-Starr Band-Volume 1  Ringo Starr and His third All-Starr Band-Volume 1 was a limited edition live album by Ringo Starr, and his All Starr band, recorded at the Nippon Budokan, Tokyo, Japan. The album was released as a promotion by Blockbuster videos for only $5.99. The All-Starr Band included the return of the keyboardist Billy Preston and Ringo's son Zak. A Volume 2 was never made.
Ringo Starr  Extended Versions (Ringo Starr album)  Extended Versions is a promotional live album by Ringo Starr, with his All-Starr Band. The album features the tracks from the All-Starr Band's 2001 tour. (Tracks from the 2001 edition of the All-Starr Band also appeared on the album, King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band, released in 2002).
Richard Starkey  Extended Versions (Ringo Starr album)  Extended Versions is a promotional live album by Ringo Starr, with his All-Starr Band. The album features the tracks from the All-Starr Band's 2001 tour. (Tracks from the 2001 edition of the All-Starr Band also appeared on the album, King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band, released in 2002).
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr and Friends  Ringo Starr and Friends is a 2006 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr. following his 2005-2006 successful tour. The album features the tracks from the All-Starr Band's 2001 tour. (Tracks from the 2001 edition of the All-Starr Band also appeared on the album, King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band, released in 2002. Ringo's friends included on the album are Ian Hunter, Howard Jones, Roger Hodgson, Sheila E, Greg Lake and Mark Rivera.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr and Friends  Ringo Starr and Friends is a 2006 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr. following his 2005-2006 successful tour. The album features the tracks from the All-Starr Band's 2001 tour. (Tracks from the 2001 edition of the All-Starr Band also appeared on the album, King Biscuit Flower Hour Presents Ringo &amp; His New All-Starr Band, released in 2002. Ringo's friends included on the album are Ian Hunter, Howard Jones, Roger Hodgson, Sheila E, Greg Lake and Mark Rivera.
Ringo Starr  Liverpool 8  Liverpool 8 is the 14th studio album by Ringo Starr. It was released worldwide on January 14, 2008 (January 15, 2008 in the United States) and marks Starr's return to EMI for the first time since leaving the label in 1975, following the end of The Beatles' recording contract with the company. Although technically Starr did make a brief re-appearance on EMI in the mid-1990s, as when his 1981 album Stop and Smell the Roses and his 1983 album Old Wave (both originally released on Boardwalk Records) were issued on CD, they appeared on Capitol's The Right Stuff label. Liverpool 8 was released by EMI Music worldwide, Capitol Records in the United States, and Parlophone in the United Kingdom.
Richard Starkey  Liverpool 8  Liverpool 8 is the 14th studio album by Ringo Starr. It was released worldwide on January 14, 2008 (January 15, 2008 in the United States) and marks Starr's return to EMI for the first time since leaving the label in 1975, following the end of The Beatles' recording contract with the company. Although technically Starr did make a brief re-appearance on EMI in the mid-1990s, as when his 1981 album Stop and Smell the Roses and his 1983 album Old Wave (both originally released on Boardwalk Records) were issued on CD, they appeared on Capitol's The Right Stuff label. Liverpool 8 was released by EMI Music worldwide, Capitol Records in the United States, and Parlophone in the United Kingdom.
Ringo Starr  Scouse the Mouse  Scouse the Mouse is a children's album, released in Great Britain in 1977, that featured the vocals of Ringo Starr and others. Starr appears as the album's main character, Scouse the Mouse, who emigrates from Liverpool to the United States. Scouse is a word for things from Liverpool. Other characters are played by Adam Faith (“Bonce the Mouse”) and Barbara Dickson (“Molly Jolly”). The album was written and directed by Donald Pleasence. Most of the songs performed on the album were composed by Roger Brown. An animated television version of the story was planned for airing on ITV, but it was delayed due to a strike and ultimately shelved. The album, which was the third and final release in Starr’s three-album deal with Polydor Records, was not issued in the United States. As of November 2009, it has not been released on compact disc.
Richard Starkey  Scouse the Mouse  Scouse the Mouse is a children's album, released in Great Britain in 1977, that featured the vocals of Ringo Starr and others. Starr appears as the album's main character, Scouse the Mouse, who emigrates from Liverpool to the United States. Scouse is a word for things from Liverpool. Other characters are played by Adam Faith (“Bonce the Mouse”) and Barbara Dickson (“Molly Jolly”). The album was written and directed by Donald Pleasence. Most of the songs performed on the album were composed by Roger Brown. An animated television version of the story was planned for airing on ITV, but it was delayed due to a strike and ultimately shelved. The album, which was the third and final release in Starr’s three-album deal with Polydor Records, was not issued in the United States. As of November 2009, it has not been released on compact disc.
Ringo Starr  Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr  Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr is a career-spanning best-of compilation album by Ringo Starr and is the first such album since the release of 1975's Blast from Your Past. The release of the collection coincided with that of Starr's first four solo albums for EMI in digital format on 28 August 2007. The compilation debuted at No. 26 in the United Kingdom album chart on 2 September 2007. This represents Starr's highest UK album chart peak since 1974, when the Goodnight Vienna album debuted and peaked at No. 30. The album stayed in the UK Top 100 chart for three weeks. The album also had a 2-week chart run in the United States, where it debuted at No. 130 with 5,426 copies sold during the first week of release.
Richard Starkey  Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr  Photograph: The Very Best of Ringo Starr is a career-spanning best-of compilation album by Ringo Starr and is the first such album since the release of 1975's Blast from Your Past. The release of the collection coincided with that of Starr's first four solo albums for EMI in digital format on 28 August 2007. The compilation debuted at No. 26 in the United Kingdom album chart on 2 September 2007. This represents Starr's highest UK album chart peak since 1974, when the Goodnight Vienna album debuted and peaked at No. 30. The album stayed in the UK Top 100 chart for three weeks. The album also had a 2-week chart run in the United States, where it debuted at No. 130 with 5,426 copies sold during the first week of release.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage  Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage is a 2007 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr. It was recorded at the Genessee Theatre in Waukegan, Illinois on June 24, 2005 as part of the PBS concert series Soundstage. Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage features many of Starr's best-known songs, both as a solo artist and as a Beatle, including: Yellow Submarine, Octopus' Garden, Photograph, and songs from his two previous studio albums, Choose Love and Ringo Rama.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage  Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage is a 2007 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr. It was recorded at the Genessee Theatre in Waukegan, Illinois on June 24, 2005 as part of the PBS concert series Soundstage. Ringo Starr: Live at Soundstage features many of Starr's best-known songs, both as a solo artist and as a Beatle, including: Yellow Submarine, Octopus' Garden, Photograph, and songs from his two previous studio albums, Choose Love and Ringo Rama.
Ringo Starr  Ringo 5.1: The Surround Sound Collection  Ringo 5.1: The Surround Sound Collection is a DVD-Audio compilation by Ringo Starr. The tracks featured are from his albums Ringo Rama and Choose Love.
Richard Starkey  Ringo 5.1: The Surround Sound Collection  Ringo 5.1: The Surround Sound Collection is a DVD-Audio compilation by Ringo Starr. The tracks featured are from his albums Ringo Rama and Choose Love.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr & His All Starr Band Live 2006  Ringo Starr &amp; His All Starr Band Live 2006 is a 2008 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr and his All-Starr Band. It was recorded during his 2006 All-Starr Tour in Uncasville, Connecticut. In addition to Starr, his co-stars are Billy Squier, Edgar Winter, Hamish Stuart, Richard Marx, Rod Argent and Sheila E. This particular All-Starr tour was notable for Starr's personal and professional break with longtime collaborator, Mark Hudson, who declined to participate, inciting the split.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr & His All Starr Band Live 2006  Ringo Starr &amp; His All Starr Band Live 2006 is a 2008 live album by rock musician and ex-Beatle Ringo Starr and his All-Starr Band. It was recorded during his 2006 All-Starr Tour in Uncasville, Connecticut. In addition to Starr, his co-stars are Billy Squier, Edgar Winter, Hamish Stuart, Richard Marx, Rod Argent and Sheila E. This particular All-Starr tour was notable for Starr's personal and professional break with longtime collaborator, Mark Hudson, who declined to participate, inciting the split.
Ringo Starr  Y Not  Y Not is the 15th studio album by Ringo Starr, released on January 12, 2010 on Universal. The first single from the album, Walk With You, released 22 December 2009, features shared vocals with fellow former Beatle Paul McCartney. In addition to McCartney, the album also includes collaborations with Joe Walsh, Joss Stone, Van Dyke Parks, Ben Harper and Richard Marx. It was the first album of his career which Starr primarily produced (he had previously co-produced several albums). The album debuted at No. 58 on the Billboard Top 200 chart, with 7,965 copies sold in the US during the first week of release. This is the highest Ringo Starr US album chart peak since 1976. As of February 2010, the album has sold over 30,000 copies worldwide.
Richard Starkey  Y Not  Y Not is the 15th studio album by Ringo Starr, released on January 12, 2010 on Universal. The first single from the album, Walk With You, released 22 December 2009, features shared vocals with fellow former Beatle Paul McCartney. In addition to McCartney, the album also includes collaborations with Joe Walsh, Joss Stone, Van Dyke Parks, Ben Harper and Richard Marx. It was the first album of his career which Starr primarily produced (he had previously co-produced several albums). The album debuted at No. 58 on the Billboard Top 200 chart, with 7,965 copies sold in the US during the first week of release. This is the highest Ringo Starr US album chart peak since 1976. As of February 2010, the album has sold over 30,000 copies worldwide.
Robbie Williams  Life thru a Lens  Life thru a Lens was the first solo album by English pop singer Robbie Williams after his former band Take That split. After trying to find his own sound during a harrowing period for him, recordings for the album began at London's Maison Rouge studios in March of that year, shortly after his introduction to Guy Chambers. The album was certified as 8x Platinum in the UK.
Robbie Williams  Sing When You're Winning  Sing When You're Winning is the third British solo album (fourth overall) by English pop singer Robbie Williams, released in 2000. Following his last album, I've Been Expecting You in 1998, and in the middle of promotion and touring in 1999, Robbie found time to start the work on what would be his third studio album. The title name is a reference to a famous football chant of the same name (Williams being a fan of Port Vale football club). The album cover features multiple images of Williams celebrating winning a trophy at Chelsea's stadium Stamford Bridge. The original CD release does not feature Williams' name or the album title on the front cover, nor does it feature a track listing on the back. This was changed for future releases. The album was certified as 8x Platinum in the UK.
Robbie Williams  I've Been Expecting You  I've Been Expecting You is the second album by Robbie Williams. The most successful singles from it were Millennium and She's the One. The album was one of the best selling albums in the UK from 1998–1999 and to date has sold over 2.5 million in the UK alone making it Williams best selling UK album. It sold a total of 5 million copies in Europe, as confirmed by the IFPI. I've Been Expecting You was ranked 91st in a 2005 survey held by British television's Channel 4 to determine the 100 greatest albums of all time. Williams and Chambers started the writing process of the album in Jamaica in the spring of 1998. The album has been certified 10x Platinum in the UK.
Robbie Williams  Escapology (album)  Escapology is a 2002 album by Robbie Williams, his fifth solo effort, and his last with producer and co-songwriter Guy Chambers. The most successful singles released from the album were Feel and Something Beautiful. Escapology was arguably conceived as a concept album due to its lyrics being totally reflective about Williams' life as a popstar in Los Angeles, particularly his hopes (Hot Fudge) and fears (Monsoon). Williams has said of the album that half of it is written from the standpoint of 'Look, this is really me with my tears of a clown. Do they love me or hate me?' The rest of it is about somebody that I have to think I am to get up onstage. Because little me wouldn't get up there. It's too scary! The album was revised for the U.S. market upon its release there in 2003 and was named the 'Best Album by a Solo Male' in the International Category on the Oye! Awards in Mexico. The album was certified as 7x Platinum in the UK. This album has been released with the Copy Control protection system in some regions.
Robbie Williams  Intensive Care (album)  Intensive Care is the ninth album and sixth solo studio album by English pop singer Robbie Williams, released on October 24, 2005 in the United Kingdom. Although not originally intended to be released in North America, it was made available on iTunes there.
Robbie Williams  Swing When You're Winning  Swing When You're Winning is a swing album by English pop singer Robbie Williams, released in 2001. Consisting mainly of pop standard song covers common to the Great American Songbook, this album is his fourth solo album released in the United Kingdom and his fifth solo album overall. Aside from the title, the album is not directly associated with Williams' previous album, Sing When You're Winning. Born from his life-long love for Frank Sinatra – combined with the success of the track Have You Met Miss Jones? that he recorded for the film Bridget Jones's Diary in early 2001 – the album was recorded at the Capitol Studios in Los Angeles, California. The album was certified as 7x Platinum in the UK.
Robbie Williams  Greatest Hits (Robbie Williams album)  Greatest Hits is a hits compilation by Robbie Williams, released in 2004. It included two new songs, these being Radio and Misunderstood, which were both released as singles. The album is his seventh released in the United Kingdom. It was one of the fastest selling albums upon release in the country, where it debuted at the number-one spot with first week sales over 320,000 copies. Certain versions of the compilation feature Williams in a pose exposing his pubic hair on the cover, and in the booklet is the Latin phase …si quid habet mammas vel rotas, res habebis difficiles aliquando, translating into if it has tits or wheels, it makes life difficult.  A special edition box set with all of Robbie Williams' singles was released on the same day.
Robbie Williams  Live at Knebworth  Live at Knebworth, also known as Live Summer 2003 with different cover text, is a live album by English pop singer Robbie Williams, recorded and released in 2003. The album is his first live album, and is a compilation of songs performed during three consecutive shows at Knebworth, England. The three shows attracted a total of 375,000 fans. It became the fastest and biggest selling live album ever in the United Kingdom. It has been certified 3x Platinum by the IFPI for shipments over 3 million copies, altogether, the album has sold over 3.5 million copies worldwide. The DVD released of that Summer's three performances at Knebworth Park was entitled What We Did Last Summer, a reference to the film I Know What You Did Last Summer. It went on to become to fastest selling music DVD in the United Kingdom selling 350,000 in total. In Australia, the DVD went on to sell 165,000 copies, 25,000 more than the actual album. Robbie's former Take That band mate Mark Owen was invited to perform Back For Good on stage with him at Knebworth. This was the first time the two had performed together since the band split in 1996. After Performing with Robbie, Mark Owen returned to the spotlight signing a deal with Island/Universal Records.
Robbie Williams  The Ego Has Landed  The Ego Has Landed is a compilation album by English pop singer Robbie Williams. After the success of Williams around the world, Williams was signed to Capitol Records in the United States, which is a part of EMI, the album was released in May 1999 in the United States and Canada, and later issued worldwide. It is not classed as one of his own solo albums as it was a compilation of his first two albums. It was his American debut album, combining tracks from his two official UK studio albums at the time, Life Thru A Lens and I've Been Expecting You. The title is a parody of the famous transmission, The Eagle Has Landed, from the first manned spacecraft to land on the moon.
Robbie Williams  Rudebox  Rudebox is Robbie Williams' seventh studio album (10th overall), released on October 23, 2006 in the UK. The album features collaborations with William Orbit, Mark Ronson, Soul Mekanik and two collaborations with the Pet Shop Boys: She's Madonna and We're the Pet Shop Boys. Lily Allen provides backing vocals on the songs Bongo Bong and Je Ne T'aime Plus and Keep On. Williams covers five songs on the album: Louise, a 1984 hit for The Human League, Kiss Me, the biggest hit for Stephen Duffy, Lovelight by Lewis Taylor, We're the Pet Shop Boys by My Robot Friend, and Bongo Bong and Je Ne T'aime Plus, by Manu Chao. Getting a mixed reception from critics, the album reached the top position in fourteen countries including United Kingdom, Australia, Switzerland, Germany, Mexico, Argentina, Spain, Italy and Finland.
Robbie Williams  The Robbie Williams Show  The Robbie Williams Show is a live DVD by Robbie Williams, recorded in 2002 in Pinewood Studios before the release of the album Escapology.
Robbie Williams  The Best So Far (Robbie Williams album)  The Best So Far is an album released by the singer Robbie Williams, just in Brazil, to celebrate his tour.
Robbie Williams  Live at the Albert  Robbie Williams: Live at the Albert is a DVD that was released in December of 2001 of the show performed in October 10, 2001; concert that Robbie Williams gave at Royal Albert Hall a month before the release of the album Swing When You're Winning. It has since been certified 6x Platinum in the United Kingdom and 2x Platinum in Germany. After the end of the first song he gave this emotive message: “ Good evening, ladies and gentlemen! (... ) Tonight is a special show for me, it's a night when I'm going to pay tribute to some of the coolest men who have ever lived, like Mr. Sammy Davis, Jr. , Mr. Dean Martin, Mr. Frank Sinatra...  ” The DVD included performances of nearly all of the songs from the album, with performances from Jonathan Wilkes, Jon Lovitz, and Jane Horrocks, as well as a live version of Robbie's 'duet' with Sinatra. Rupert Everett emceed, and Nicole Kidman attended the show, but neither performed their duets featured on the album; these were the only songs from the album which did not feature live. In March 13, 2007 (five years after the release), the concert was re-released in High Definition
Robbie Williams  And Through It All: Robbie Williams Live 1997-2006  And Through It All: Robbie Williams Live 1997-2006 is a DVD that was released in November of 2006 of various live performances recorded between 1997 and 2006.
Robbie Williams  Reality Killed the Video Star  Reality Killed the Video Star is the eighth solo studio album by the British singer-songwriter Robbie Williams, released in November 2009. The album was produced by Trevor Horn and recorded between September 2008 and August 2009 in London and Los Angeles. It debuted in the top ten of 22 national album charts worldwide, and has received varying reviews from music critics. It incorporates elements of pop rock, dance-rock, alternative rock and adult contemporary music. Reality Killed the Video Star was viewed by critics and fans as being Williams' comeback album after the relative failure of his 2006 release, Rudebox. The album was preceded by lead single Bodies released in October 2009. Other single releases include You Know Me and Morning Sun. The album has been certified platinum in Europe for sales of over one million copies, including 900,000 copies sold in the UK alone. Despite this, it was Williams' first studio album not to reach number one on the UK Albums Chart, beaten to the top spot by a margin of less than 1% by the UK boy band JLS's self-titled debut album.
Robbie Williams  Songbook (Robbie Williams album)  Songbook is a compilation album by English pop singer Robbie Williams. The limited edition album was given away for free inside the newspaper, The Mail on Sunday, on October 11, 2009. The one-off album includes some of his biggest hits, several rare live performances, plus images and exclusive clips from his new album, Reality Killed the Video Star. Julian Broad shot the image featured on the cover, which was taken in a shoot that the similar image used for the front cover for Reality Killed the Videostar was also take in.
Robbie Williams  In and Out of Consciousness: The Greatest Hits 1990–2010  In and Out of Consciousness: The Greatest Hits 1990–2010 is the second greatest hits compilation album by the British singer-songwriter Robbie Williams, after his first greatest hits compilation, Greatest Hits, which was released in 2004. The album, which features 39 tracks, was released in October 2010 and is his last album under his current recording contract with EMI. The lead single of the album is Shame, co-written by and featuring fellow Take That member Gary Barlow. The song is their first collaboration in 15 years since Williams left Take That in 1995.
Robbie Williams  What We Did Last Summer  What We Did Last Summer- Robbie Williams: Live at Knebworth is a live DVD by Robbie Williams, recorded between the 1st - 3rd of August 2003 at Knebworth, England as part of the Weekends of Mass Distraction Tour, the second last venue on the first leg of the tour. The album is a DVD companion to the live album Live at Knebworth (also known as Live Summer 2003).
Ronan Keating  Turn It On  Turn It On is the third studio album released by ex-Boyzone frontman, Ronan Keating. The album was released on November 17, 2003. Three singles were released from the album: Lost for Words, She Believes (In Me) and Last Thing on My Mind
Ronan Keating  Destination (Ronan Keating album)  Destination is the second studio album from ex-Boyzone frontman, Ronan Keating. The album was released on May 20, 2002, by Polydor Records
Ronan Keating  Ronan (album)  Ronan is the self-titled, debut solo album from Irish singer/songwriter and ex-Boyzone frontman, Ronan Keating. It was released by Polydor Records
Ronan Keating  Bring You Home  Bring You Home is the fourth studio album by Irish singer/songwriter Ronan Keating. It was released by Polydor Records, on June 5, 2006. It was his last studio album before he returned to newly-reformed Boyzone.
Ronan Keating  10 Years of Hits  10 Years Of Hits is the first compilation album released by Boyzone frontman, Ronan Keating
Ronan Keating  Songs for My Mother  Songs for My Mother is the fifth studio album released by Boyzone frontman and Irish singer/songwriter Ronan Keating. The album was released on March 16, 2009 on Polydor Records, and is his first album to be released since the reunion of Boyzone.
Ronan Keating  Winter Songs (Ronan Keating album)  Winter Songs is the sixth studio album released by Irish singer/songwriter and Boyzone frontman Ronan Keating. It was released by Polydor Records on November 16, 2009 in the UK and Ireland, debuting at number 16 and 12 in each respective album chart. The first single, a cover of Grammy Award-winning American country music duo Sugarland's hit Stay, was released digitally on the same day.
Sakis Rouvas  Iparhi Agapi Edo  Iparhi Agapi Edo is the eleventh studio album by Greek rock singer Sakis Rouvas. It was first released in Greece on December 7, 2006 by Minos EMI. Iparhi Agapi Edo includes 15 tracks including a ballad called Mikros Titanikos (Se Latrevo) that was written especially for Rouvas by Yiannis Parios. The album has also been released in Cyprus, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Italy and in other EU countries. By December 2007 album sold more than 300.000 legal copies from which 90.000 was bought just in Greece.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Iparhi Agapi Edo  Iparhi Agapi Edo is the eleventh studio album by Greek rock singer Sakis Rouvas. It was first released in Greece on December 7, 2006 by Minos EMI. Iparhi Agapi Edo includes 15 tracks including a ballad called Mikros Titanikos (Se Latrevo) that was written especially for Rouvas by Yiannis Parios. The album has also been released in Cyprus, Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Italy and in other EU countries. By December 2007 album sold more than 300.000 legal copies from which 90.000 was bought just in Greece.
Sakis Rouvas  S'eho Erotefthi  S'eho Erotefthi is the tenth studio album by Greek pop sensation Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on April 6, 2005 in Greece and gained double platinum status in only 6 months. After the release of S'eho Erotefthi: Special Edition in November of the same year, the album soon gained 3&times; platinum status and stands as Rouvas' highest selling studio album.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  S'eho Erotefthi  S'eho Erotefthi is the tenth studio album by Greek pop sensation Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on April 6, 2005 in Greece and gained double platinum status in only 6 months. After the release of S'eho Erotefthi: Special Edition in November of the same year, the album soon gained 3&times; platinum status and stands as Rouvas' highest selling studio album.
Sakis Rouvas  21os Akatallilos  21os Akatallilos is the eighth studio album by Greek pop sensation Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on April 9, 2000 in Greece and Cyprus and reached double platinum status, selling more than 100,000 copies in Greece, and platinum in Cyprus, with sales of over 10,000 copies. The album incorporates many Western sounds of rock, and is the most successful rock or alternative album ever in Greece. This is also the first album in which Sakis Rouvas has contributed musically, having written the tracks Voudhas and Akatallilos. 21os Akatallilos was re-released with two bonus songs in February 2001. The album contains a bonus Club Mix of the huge number 1 hit Andexa and an Added Mix of the power-ballad Se Thelo San Trelos.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  21os Akatallilos  21os Akatallilos is the eighth studio album by Greek pop sensation Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on April 9, 2000 in Greece and Cyprus and reached double platinum status, selling more than 100,000 copies in Greece, and platinum in Cyprus, with sales of over 10,000 copies. The album incorporates many Western sounds of rock, and is the most successful rock or alternative album ever in Greece. This is also the first album in which Sakis Rouvas has contributed musically, having written the tracks Voudhas and Akatallilos. 21os Akatallilos was re-released with two bonus songs in February 2001. The album contains a bonus Club Mix of the huge number 1 hit Andexa and an Added Mix of the power-ballad Se Thelo San Trelos.
Sakis Rouvas  Kati Apo Mena  Kati Apo Mena is the sixth studio album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on 3 December 1998. The album is largely written and entirely produced by Giorgos Theofanous. This was Rouvas' first album with the Minos EMI group and gained enormous success, debuting at number 1 on the Greek Albums Chart and becoming gold only three days after its release.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Kati Apo Mena  Kati Apo Mena is the sixth studio album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on 3 December 1998. The album is largely written and entirely produced by Giorgos Theofanous. This was Rouvas' first album with the Minos EMI group and gained enormous success, debuting at number 1 on the Greek Albums Chart and becoming gold only three days after its release.
Sakis Rouvas  Ola Kala  Ola Kala is the eighth studio album and first international album featuring a number of English language songs by popular Greek singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, originally released on June 16, 2002 in Greece and Cyprus by Minos EMI. World renowned songwriter and producer Desmond Child is the main producer of the album.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Ola Kala  Ola Kala is the eighth studio album and first international album featuring a number of English language songs by popular Greek singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, originally released on June 16, 2002 in Greece and Cyprus by Minos EMI. World renowned songwriter and producer Desmond Child is the main producer of the album.
Sakis Rouvas  This Is My Live  This Is My Live is the name of the second live album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on December 12, 2007 in Greece and Cyprus by Minos EMI. The album was recorded on September 9, 2007 at Rouvas' sold-out show at Lycabetus Theatre with an audience of 7,000. The concert was the final stop on the musician's Benefit Tour for the Greek fire victims of 2007. The combined effort of the tour and other appearances by Rouvas raised over €1.000.000 in fundraiser, becoming one of the greatest sources of aid and relief. The majority of the proceeds of this concert went to fire victims in Greece, particularly those of the 2007 Greek forest fires, however, another intention was to promote blood donation which was running short in Athens. As a result, thousands of pints of blood were collected. The album received a platinum certification in only three months and ranked at number 34 on the IFPI Greece 2007 Annual Top 50 Greek Albums, an impressive annual sales rank for an album released only in the final 20 days of the year. It had sold over 20,000 copies and went gold before year end.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  This Is My Live  This Is My Live is the name of the second live album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on December 12, 2007 in Greece and Cyprus by Minos EMI. The album was recorded on September 9, 2007 at Rouvas' sold-out show at Lycabetus Theatre with an audience of 7,000. The concert was the final stop on the musician's Benefit Tour for the Greek fire victims of 2007. The combined effort of the tour and other appearances by Rouvas raised over €1.000.000 in fundraiser, becoming one of the greatest sources of aid and relief. The majority of the proceeds of this concert went to fire victims in Greece, particularly those of the 2007 Greek forest fires, however, another intention was to promote blood donation which was running short in Athens. As a result, thousands of pints of blood were collected. The album received a platinum certification in only three months and ranked at number 34 on the IFPI Greece 2007 Annual Top 50 Greek Albums, an impressive annual sales rank for an album released only in the final 20 days of the year. It had sold over 20,000 copies and went gold before year end.
Sakis Rouvas  Me Kommeni Tin Anasa  Me Kommeni Tin Anasa is the first compilation album by popular Greek singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, released on October 5, 1999, by Universal Music Greece. It features 16 of his biggest hit singles as well as a bonus CD single with four remixes and an English track called Oh Girl.  The album received a platinum certification.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Me Kommeni Tin Anasa  Me Kommeni Tin Anasa is the first compilation album by popular Greek singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, released on October 5, 1999, by Universal Music Greece. It features 16 of his biggest hit singles as well as a bonus CD single with four remixes and an English track called Oh Girl.  The album received a platinum certification.
Sakis Rouvas  Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola  Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola is the fifth studio album by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on May 12, 1996 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. This was Rouvas' second album to be entirely produced by legendary singer-songwriter, composer and multi-instrumentalist Nikos Karvelas, after the groundbreaking success of Aima, Dakrya &amp; Idrotas in 1994. The album went to number 1, making it Rouvas' fifth consecutive number-one album, and achieved Platinum status.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola  Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola is the fifth studio album by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released on May 12, 1996 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. This was Rouvas' second album to be entirely produced by legendary singer-songwriter, composer and multi-instrumentalist Nikos Karvelas, after the groundbreaking success of Aima, Dakrya &amp; Idrotas in 1994. The album went to number 1, making it Rouvas' fifth consecutive number-one album, and achieved Platinum status.
Sakis Rouvas  Aima, Dakrya & Idrotas  Aima, Dakrya &amp; Idrotas is the fourth studio album by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released in November 1994 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. This album was Rouvas' primary collaboration with legendary singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Nikos Karvelas after a series of three Gold albums. The album went to number one and became Rouvas' first platinum record, selling over 65,000 copies in Greece alone and 100,000 worldwide. The album is one of IFPI Greece's Top 30 albums of the 1990s.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Aima, Dakrya & Idrotas  Aima, Dakrya &amp; Idrotas is the fourth studio album by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released in November 1994 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. This album was Rouvas' primary collaboration with legendary singer-songwriter and multi-instrumentalist Nikos Karvelas after a series of three Gold albums. The album went to number one and became Rouvas' first platinum record, selling over 65,000 copies in Greece alone and 100,000 worldwide. The album is one of IFPI Greece's Top 30 albums of the 1990s.
Sakis Rouvas  Live Ballads  Live Ballads is the first live CD or video album, and eleventh album overall by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released in Greece and Cyprus on 27 April 2006 by Minos EMI. The album went Gold after two weeks, and settled at Platinum, selling a total of over 50,000 copies. The concert was recorded on 14 February 2006 as a special Valentine's Day performance called Sakis For Valentines. Sakis sang only love oriented ballads in both Greek and English from his large repertoire and covers of other artists. The concert was much more intimate than his common large-scale performances and was held at the Athens College auditorium where Rouvas performed especially for the students as a thank you to his young fans, often being called The Singer of Youth.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Live Ballads  Live Ballads is the first live CD or video album, and eleventh album overall by popular Greek singer Sakis Rouvas, released in Greece and Cyprus on 27 April 2006 by Minos EMI. The album went Gold after two weeks, and settled at Platinum, selling a total of over 50,000 copies. The concert was recorded on 14 February 2006 as a special Valentine's Day performance called Sakis For Valentines. Sakis sang only love oriented ballads in both Greek and English from his large repertoire and covers of other artists. The concert was much more intimate than his common large-scale performances and was held at the Athens College auditorium where Rouvas performed especially for the students as a thank you to his young fans, often being called The Singer of Youth.
Sakis Rouvas  Gia Sena  Gia Sena is the third studio album by popular Greek musician Sakis Rouvas, released in October 1993 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. The album featured a number of hit singles and reached number 1 on the Greek Albums Chart, reaching gold status, becoming his third consecutive album to do so in a time span of two years.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Gia Sena  Gia Sena is the third studio album by popular Greek musician Sakis Rouvas, released in October 1993 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. The album featured a number of hit singles and reached number 1 on the Greek Albums Chart, reaching gold status, becoming his third consecutive album to do so in a time span of two years.
Sakis Rouvas  Irthes  Irthes is the title of the 12th studio album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on December 3, 2008 by Minos EMI and is his first new album since 2006. The album features 10 songs primarily composed by Dimitris Kontopoulos. The title track of the album, Irthes, was written as a dedication to Rouvas' newborn baby girl. The main sponsors of the album are Trident, and once again Vodafone Greece. In April, the album was repackaged to include Rouvas' 2009 Eurovision Song Contest entry This Is Our Night, along with the two other songs he sang at the Greek national final, which are included in English and in Greek. The album was subsequently renamed This Is Our Night. The album was ranked as the fourth best Greek album of 2009 by Ethnos.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Irthes  Irthes is the title of the 12th studio album by Greek singer Sakis Rouvas. The album was released on December 3, 2008 by Minos EMI and is his first new album since 2006. The album features 10 songs primarily composed by Dimitris Kontopoulos. The title track of the album, Irthes, was written as a dedication to Rouvas' newborn baby girl. The main sponsors of the album are Trident, and once again Vodafone Greece. In April, the album was repackaged to include Rouvas' 2009 Eurovision Song Contest entry This Is Our Night, along with the two other songs he sang at the Greek national final, which are included in English and in Greek. The album was subsequently renamed This Is Our Night. The album was ranked as the fourth best Greek album of 2009 by Ethnos.
Sakis Rouvas  Sakis Rouvas (1991 album)  Sakis Rouvas is the self-titled debut album by popular Greek pop-rock musician Sakis Rouvas, released in October 1991 by PolyGram Records in Greece and Cyprus. The entire album was produced by the successful composer Nikos Terzis who was on the rise in the early 1990s, while the songs have all been penned by Giorgos Pavrianos, who was an already established writer. The album officially declared Rouvas as Greece's first male pop singer to closely mirror other Western pop music acts, however, he is often widely perceived as the first Greek pop artist. The album debuted at number 1 in the Greek Top 50 Albums chart and was certified gold in both Greece and Cyprus, with sales of over 30,000 units in Greece alone.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Sakis Rouvas (1991 album)  Sakis Rouvas is the self-titled debut album by popular Greek pop-rock musician Sakis Rouvas, released in October 1991 by PolyGram Records in Greece and Cyprus. The entire album was produced by the successful composer Nikos Terzis who was on the rise in the early 1990s, while the songs have all been penned by Giorgos Pavrianos, who was an already established writer. The album officially declared Rouvas as Greece's first male pop singer to closely mirror other Western pop music acts, however, he is often widely perceived as the first Greek pop artist. The album debuted at number 1 in the Greek Top 50 Albums chart and was certified gold in both Greece and Cyprus, with sales of over 30,000 units in Greece alone.
Sakis Rouvas  To Hrono Stamatao  To Hrono Stamatao is the tenth studio album by popular Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, released in December 2003 by Minos EMI in Greece and Cyprus. The album was certified gold within its first two weeks of charting in both Greece and Cyprus, reaching number 1 in both countries' charts. In Greece the album was certified platinum after the new year, while the album was re-released in May 2004 to contain Rouvas' smash hit Shake It along with a remix, which was Greece's entrant in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 that won third place. The album To Hrono Stamatao has been a very successful album, finally being certified double platinum in Greece in the summer of 2004 and platinum in Cyprus. Some of the songs from the album can also be found on the 2004 edition European release of the album Ola Kala which was used to further promote Rouvas' already stable international career after the Eurovision. The album was also released in other parts of the world such as Turkey and Russia due to its success.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  To Hrono Stamatao  To Hrono Stamatao is the tenth studio album by popular Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas, released in December 2003 by Minos EMI in Greece and Cyprus. The album was certified gold within its first two weeks of charting in both Greece and Cyprus, reaching number 1 in both countries' charts. In Greece the album was certified platinum after the new year, while the album was re-released in May 2004 to contain Rouvas' smash hit Shake It along with a remix, which was Greece's entrant in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 that won third place. The album To Hrono Stamatao has been a very successful album, finally being certified double platinum in Greece in the summer of 2004 and platinum in Cyprus. Some of the songs from the album can also be found on the 2004 edition European release of the album Ola Kala which was used to further promote Rouvas' already stable international career after the Eurovision. The album was also released in other parts of the world such as Turkey and Russia due to its success.
Sakis Rouvas  Min Andistekese  Min Andistekese is the second studio album by popular Greek pop musician Sakis Rouvas, released in September 1992 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. Like his self-titled debut album, this album was also entirely produced by popular composer Nikos Terzis, furthering the already rewarding collaboration. The album immediately established Rouvas as one of the most successful Greek performers, becoming his second consecutive number 1 album in both countries and reaching gold status one year after his debut. The album also was certified gold in Cyprus and has sold over 30,000 copies to date in Greece alone.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Min Andistekese  Min Andistekese is the second studio album by popular Greek pop musician Sakis Rouvas, released in September 1992 in Greece and Cyprus by PolyGram Records Greece. Like his self-titled debut album, this album was also entirely produced by popular composer Nikos Terzis, furthering the already rewarding collaboration. The album immediately established Rouvas as one of the most successful Greek performers, becoming his second consecutive number 1 album in both countries and reaching gold status one year after his debut. The album also was certified gold in Cyprus and has sold over 30,000 copies to date in Greece alone.
Sakis Rouvas  Sakis Rouvas (2001 album)  Sakis Rouvas is the first box set album, second compilation album and ninth album overall by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas. The box set comprises 4 CDs containing a near-complete collection of Rouvas' first works under the PolyGram Records record company. The collection is released by Greek music compilation issue label Delta Club and is entirely licensed by Universal Music Greece.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Sakis Rouvas (2001 album)  Sakis Rouvas is the first box set album, second compilation album and ninth album overall by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas. The box set comprises 4 CDs containing a near-complete collection of Rouvas' first works under the PolyGram Records record company. The collection is released by Greek music compilation issue label Delta Club and is entirely licensed by Universal Music Greece.
Sakis Rouvas  The Ultimate Collection: Music + Video – 1991–1996  The Ultimate Collection: Music + Video - 1991–1996 is the second video album, third compilation album and twelfth album overall by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas. The album comprises two discs, one CD and one DVD, released in early 2005 by Universal Music Greece and comprises songs from his first five albums released under the former PolyGram Records Greece. The album contains 20 of his first hit singles and 13 of his music videos.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  The Ultimate Collection: Music + Video – 1991–1996  The Ultimate Collection: Music + Video - 1991–1996 is the second video album, third compilation album and twelfth album overall by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas. The album comprises two discs, one CD and one DVD, released in early 2005 by Universal Music Greece and comprises songs from his first five albums released under the former PolyGram Records Greece. The album contains 20 of his first hit singles and 13 of his music videos.
Sakis Rouvas  Ta Erotika: Sakis Rouvas  Ta Erotika Sakis Rouvas is the first love song collection and fifth compilation album by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas and is part of the Universal Music Greece series Ta Erotika. It was released on February 10, 2007 and comprises songs from his first five albums released under the former PolyGram Records Greece. The album comprises 18 tracks with a love oriented theme.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Ta Erotika: Sakis Rouvas  Ta Erotika Sakis Rouvas is the first love song collection and fifth compilation album by Greek pop-rock singer-songwriter Sakis Rouvas and is part of the Universal Music Greece series Ta Erotika. It was released on February 10, 2007 and comprises songs from his first five albums released under the former PolyGram Records Greece. The album comprises 18 tracks with a love oriented theme.
Sakis Rouvas  Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies  Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies is the second box set album, sixth compilation album and eighteenth album overall by popular Greek pop-rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released on August 17, 2007 by Universal Music Greece. The set comprises three CDs and includes a bonus DVD with thirteen videos. The audio collection is a near-complete compilation of Rouvas' first works under the PolyGram Greece record company and included hits from his first five albums that have been divided into three categories: The Hit Singles, Love Songs, and The Remixes + Rest of the Best.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies  Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies is the second box set album, sixth compilation album and eighteenth album overall by popular Greek pop-rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released on August 17, 2007 by Universal Music Greece. The set comprises three CDs and includes a bonus DVD with thirteen videos. The audio collection is a near-complete compilation of Rouvas' first works under the PolyGram Greece record company and included hits from his first five albums that have been divided into three categories: The Hit Singles, Love Songs, and The Remixes + Rest of the Best.
Sakis Rouvas  8 Megales Epitihies  8 Megales Epitihies is the first EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released in 2006 by his former label Universal Music, along with the imprint of Mercury Records.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  8 Megales Epitihies  8 Megales Epitihies is the first EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released in 2006 by his former label Universal Music, along with the imprint of Mercury Records.
Sakis Rouvas  Monadikes Erminies  Monadikes Erminies is the third EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released in December 2007 by the Greek newspaper Eleftheros Typos as a promotional EP presented as a gift from their press, under permission from Rouvas' label Minos EMI.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Monadikes Erminies  Monadikes Erminies is the third EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released in December 2007 by the Greek newspaper Eleftheros Typos as a promotional EP presented as a gift from their press, under permission from Rouvas' label Minos EMI.
Sakis Rouvas  Dance Mixes: Afiste Tin – Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola  Dance Mixes: Afiste Tin &amp; Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola is the second EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released on May 24, 2007 by his former label Universal Music, along with the imprint of Mercury Records. It features a compilation of previously-released remixes of songs recorded from 1994-1996 and produced by Nikos Karvelas. The EP was also used as promotion for the box set compilation album Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies released the same year.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Dance Mixes: Afiste Tin – Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola  Dance Mixes: Afiste Tin &amp; Tora Arhizoun Ta Dyskola is the second EP album by popular Greek pop rock singer Sakis Rouvas, released on May 24, 2007 by his former label Universal Music, along with the imprint of Mercury Records. It features a compilation of previously-released remixes of songs recorded from 1994-1996 and produced by Nikos Karvelas. The EP was also used as promotion for the box set compilation album Ap'Tin Arhi: I Megaliteres Epitihies released the same year.
Sakis Rouvas  Alter Ego (soundtrack)  Alter Ego is the soundtrack for the film of the same name. It was released in June 2007 by Minos EMI. All five singles from the soundtrack are sung by popular singer Sakis Rouvas, who also made his feature film début, interpreting the lead role of Stefanos.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Alter Ego (soundtrack)  Alter Ego is the soundtrack for the film of the same name. It was released in June 2007 by Minos EMI. All five singles from the soundtrack are sung by popular singer Sakis Rouvas, who also made his feature film début, interpreting the lead role of Stefanos.
Sandra  The Art of Love (album)  The Art of Love is the eighth studio album by German singer Sandra, released in 2007. The highly anticipated studio album, The Art of Love was released in February 2007, entering the 16th position on the German charts. For the first time, Michael Cretu did not work as a producer for the album, as he was reportedly busy producing his new Enigma album A Posteriori. Sandra's management first tried to find producers from the United Kingdom, but Sandra didn't like the idea of leaving her family for a long period of time. Finally, Sandra contacted Michael Cretu's right hand, Jens Gad, who produced the entire album. Sandra, for the first time during her career, now participated actively in composing and writing the album. Therefore, the lyrics of the songs are more personal, with Sandra revisiting her childhood and all her sad experiences in them. She worked at Gad's studio at nights, returning home to prepare breakfast for her twins, and then sleeping until they would come home from school. Also, for the first time, Sandra revealed her new, sexier look in the promotional pictures shot in New York by Bärbel Miebach. The track Casino Royale is an alternative version of a song originally recorded by Polish singer Edyta Górniak, as Sleep With Me, and later covered by Canadian electronic music outfit Conjure One. Sandra's own alternative version, titled Sleep, appears as a bonus track on the CD single release of The Way I Am. The album contains Sandra's second collaboration with Swiss artist DJ Bobo, a song called Love is the Price. Her first was on their joint 2006 hit single, Secrets of Love.
Sandra  The Wheel of Time (album)  The Wheel of Time is the seventh studio album by German singer Sandra, released in 2002.
Sandra  The Long Play  The Long Play is the debut studio album from German singer Sandra, released on 9 December 1985.
Sandra  Back to Life (Sandra album)  Back to Life is the ninth studio album by German singer Sandra, released in 2009. The album was recorded in New York and while working on it, Sandra was collaborating with Thomas Anders (famous for his work with Modern Talking) and Toby Gad. The album contains 15 songs, most of which were written by Toby Gad. The Internet version of this release contains two bonus tracks for digital download. Back to Life has spawned two singles, In a Heartbeat and The Night Is Still Young, a duet with Thomas Anders, along with a video clip for the song. The album was produced by Jens Gad (older brother of Toby Gad), who also co-produced her two previous studio albums, The Wheel of Time and The Art of Love, and also re-mastered a selection of her million-selling singles (of which 12 million have sold worldwide) for her album Reflections, including (I'll Never Be) Maria Magdalena and four new remixes of her 1980s' smash hit In the Heat of the Night.
Sandra  Mirrors (Sandra album)  Mirrors is the second studio album from German singer Sandra, released in 1986.
Sandra  Ten on One (The Singles)  Ten on One (The Singles) is the first compilation album from German singer Sandra, released in 1987. Two singles were released for this compilation. This compilation includes songs from Sandra's debut studio album The Long Play (1985) and her second studio album Mirrors (1986). It was produced by Michael Cretu and Armand Volker.
Sandra  Into a Secret Land  Into a Secret Land is the third studio album from German singer Sandra, released in 1988. This album was produced by Michael Cretu. It reached #14 in Germany, #18 in Norway, #22 in Sweden, #13 in Austria and #9 in Switzerland.
Sandra  Reflections (Sandra album)  Reflections is a remix album by German singer Sandra, released in 2006.
Sandra  Everlasting Love (Sandra album)  Everlasting Love is the second compilation album from German singer Sandra, released in 1988. This longplayer is not counted as a regular album, it is a special compilation for the Anglo-American market and was only released in the U.S. and UK. The version of Everlasting Love was remixed for PWL to match the taste of the English and American audience and is very different from the original single release of 1987.
Sandra  Paintings in Yellow  Paintings in Yellow is the fourth studio album from German singer Sandra, released in 1990. The five-part track The Journey foreshadowed the Enigma sound. Frank Peterson, who was the co-producer (alias F. Gregorian) on the Enigma project, took up the role of writing and producing some of the tracks with Michael Cretu. His influence was clearly audible. In the same year, Enigma's song Sadeness became a huge hit in many countries all over the world. At first nobody knew who was hiding behind the alias Enigma, but Sandra fans quickly identified her voice. When the song became a Top 10 hit in the United States, it marked Sandra's first successful venture into the U.S. market. Sandra performed the album's second single (Life May Be) A Big Insanity at the World Music Awards in Monte Carlo when she accepted the prize for Best Selling German Artist at the end of 1990.
Sandra  Close to Seven  Close to Seven is the fifth studio album from German singer Sandra, released in 1992. Because of the overwhelming success of Enigma, and an almost two-year break after Paintings in Yellow, there was a gap in Sandra's career, which was finally closed, with this album. The album continued a development towards a more meditative, less dance-oriented musical style. Sandra wanted to get rid of her teen idol image and perform for a more mature audience. This was her first album produced almost completely by Michael Cretu. Close to Seven became another German Top 10 album. The male vocals were sung by Andy Jonas, also known as Andy Angel Hart.
Sandra  18 Greatest Hits  18 Greatest Hits is the first greatest hits compilation album by German singer Sandra, released in 1992. This greatest hits was released in the fall of 1992. Sandra recorded a new version of the song Johnny Wanna Live, previously released on the Paintings in Yellow album. The song, co-written by Frank Peterson and later redone by his then-girlfriend Sarah Brightman for her album Dive, was an anthem against cruelty to animals. The music video was once again directed by Howard Greenhalgh and showed shocking scenes of cruelty towards animals. In an interview in Sweden, Sandra explained the origins of the song citing her disapproval of people wearing fur coats. The greatest hits reached the Top 10 in both Germany and France and was awarded gold. The release of 18 Greatest Hits marked the end of Sandra's most successful period of her solo career. This greatest hits was re-released in 2003 under the title The Essential. This version was repackaged differently and also has different artwork.
Sandra  Fading Shades  Fading Shades is the sixth studio album by German singer Sandra, released in 1995. In 1995, while pregnant with twins, Sandra recorded and released Fading Shades. The album saw a new writer/producer Jens Gad working alongside Michael Cretu. The album featured a powerful cover version of Nights in White Satin by The Moody Blues. The music video showed only close ups of Sandra's face as she was heavily pregnant at the time. She even had to sit during the recording sessions of the album. Again, Andy Angel Hart performed all the male vocals on the album. Note that the album cover was taken from the music video Nights in White Satin. The album become one of her least successful, reaching number forty-two in Germany and thirty-seven in Switzerland.
Sandra  My Favourites  My Favourites is the third compilation album by German singer Sandra, released in 1999. 1999 saw the release of a double disc album. As the trend began with artists like Modern Talking to remix old material, My Favourites was released featuring remixes of her hits by long-time band companion Peter Ries, featuring also some of Sandra's personal favourite ballads. It quickly made its way into the Top 20 of the German album charts. Secret Land '99 was taken as the single and showed Sandra sporting a short hairstyle in the music video. In 2000, Sandra did background vocals on Andru Donalds' single release Precious Little Diamond.
Sandra  The Platinum Collection (Sandra album)  The Platinum Collection is a box set by German singer Sandra. The release follows her previous greatest hits album, 18 Greatest Hits (1992). The album was released as a three CD-set package. The songs were remastered from the original recordings. This compilation includes songs from her nine studio albums, as well as hard to find original extended versions of her singles.
Seal  Human Being (album)  Human Being is the third album by Seal. It was released in 1998 as a tribute to the murdered rappers Tupac Shakur and Biggie Smalls. Human Being received mixed reviews ranging from being panned for its overtly dark and moody feel to being described in terms such as pop perfection.  The album failed to sell in the same way as his previous multi-Platinum album, Seal (1994). The album features Seal naked on the cover. A remix of Lost My Faith was featured over the closing credits of the 1999 film Entrapment, and the song's single release was accompanied by a music video in which Seal is integrated into scenes from the film alongside Sean Connery and Catherine Zeta-Jones.
Seal  Seal (2003 album)  Seal is the fourth album (and third self-titled album) by Seal. It follows the aborted sessions for Togetherland, which was scrapped because Seal thought it was not up to the standard of his previous work. To avoid confusion with past albums, the album is sometimes referred to informally as Seal IV.
Seal  Best 1991–2004  Best 1991–2004 is a 2004 compilation album by Seal, released by Warner Bros. Records containing 14 tracks. Four separate versions of this album were released: one containing Seal's greatest hits, another with an additional disc of acoustic versions of Seal's greatest hits, a third release which included a DVD-Audio with surround sound mixes of both CDs as well as a collection of music videos, a fourth one consisting of the DVD-Audio plus the two CDs, and a fifth containing as bonus track, and only for France, his duet with the French singer Mylène Farmer called Les Mots.
Seal  Seal (1991 album)  Seal is Seal's eponymous 1991 debut album and contained the UK singles: Killer (originally performed with Adamski), Crazy, Future Love Paradise
Seal  Seal (1994 album)  Seal (sometimes referred to as Seal II to avoid confusion with the 1991 album of the same name) is the second self-titled album of singer Seal. The album was released in 1994 on ZTT/Sire Records. The image on the cover has since become nearly synonymous with Seal, in that it has appeared on several singles covers and was reused for his greatest hits album.
Seal  Live in Paris (Seal album)  Live in Paris, Seal's first live album, was recorded at the famous Olympia Theatre in Paris, France. The 2005 release was a two-disc set, containing an audio CD as well as a DVD which featured a video registration of the entire concert. Among the songs which were performed that night were Seal's hit singles Killer (originally written and recorded together with Adamski), Crazy, and Kiss from a Rose, as well as Hey Joe, made famous by Jimi Hendrix
Seal  System (album)  System is the fifth album by British musician Seal, released on 12 November 2007. In his online blog, Seal described the album as a return to his dance roots and his best album since his debut. However, it is his lowest-selling album to date in the U.S. , selling 155,000 copies in the first year of its release, according to Nielsen SoundScan. Co-producer Stuart Price previously worked on Madonna's Confessions on a Dance Floor.
Seal  One Night to Remember  One Night to Remember, Seal's second live album, was recorded at the Kesselhaus in Düsseldorf, Germany. The 2006 release was a two-disc set, containing an audio CD as well as a DVD which featured a video registration of the entire concert. Among the songs which were performed that night were Seal's hit singles Killer (originally written and recorded together with Adamski), Crazy and Kiss from a Rose, as well as a cover of the Neil Young song Don't Let It Bring You Down.
Seal  Soul (album)  Soul is the sixth studio album by British Nigerian singer Seal and was released on 10 November 2008. The album was produced by David Foster, and co-produced, engineered and mixed by Jochem van der Saag. It is made up of cover versions of eleven soul music classics. The album's lead single was A Change Is Gonna Come. So far, the album peaked at #1 on French Album Charts for 13 consecutive weeks.
Seal  Togetherland  Togetherland was originally intended to be Seal's fourth album and was to be released back in 2001. Contrary to various reports, Warner Bros. Records turned down the album because they weren't too happy with its end result. Seal recorded and released Seal IV in its place. Seal decided to put Togetherland into a vault, where the album has remained ever since. Over the years, fans have been able to listen to 30 second clips as well as streamed, full versions of some of the album's songs, to which many of those songs received high praise. On July 1, 2007, a book titled The Greatest Music Never Sold was released and makes mention of Togetherland as well as other popular artists whose music has been kept hidden away. So far, the only song from Togetherland that has been released commercially is the song This Could Be Heaven (originally entitled simply Heaven), which was on the soundtrack to the motion picture The Family Man. The recording of the track, however, is different from the version that was recorded for Togetherland.
Seal  Hits (Seal album)  Hits is a 2009 compilation album by Seal, released by Warner Bros. Records containing 14 tracks. It is Seal's second compilation album following 2004's Best 1991-2004. The album was released on two formats, a 1-disc standard edition which featured 19 tracks and a 2-disc deluxe edition which featured 34 tracks. Both versions of the album included two new songs I Am Your Man and Thank You. The cover also serves as the artwork for the 2008 single It's A Man's Man's Man's World.
Selena  Amor Prohibido  Amor Prohibido is the name of an album by Latin superstar Selena. The album remains as the biggest selling Latin album of all time, being certified 20x Platinum (Latin type) by the RIAA for selling over 2 million copies. The album produced four number-one singles (one posthumous) on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks chart, the only Spanish album by a female to achieve this feat.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Amor Prohibido  Amor Prohibido is the name of an album by Latin superstar Selena. The album remains as the biggest selling Latin album of all time, being certified 20x Platinum (Latin type) by the RIAA for selling over 2 million copies. The album produced four number-one singles (one posthumous) on the Billboard Hot Latin Tracks chart, the only Spanish album by a female to achieve this feat.
Selena  Ven Conmigo  Ven Conmigo is the second album release by Tejano singer Selena y Los Dinos under EMI Latin. The album includes a musical variety of rancheras, cumbias, ballads, and pop. A.B. Quintanilla, the producer, enlisted the participation of David Lee Garza, an accordion player for the title track, Ven Conmigo. The group recorded La Tracalera, a cover version of a song by the original Dinos, and Aunque No Salga el Sol in 1984. The song Baila Esta Cumbia was an instant success in the U.S. and crossed over later on to Mexico. The album cover was photographed in black and white because Selena dyed her hair jet black the night before and got some on her face. Ven Conmigo was the group's first Gold album. A remastered version was released in 2002.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Ven Conmigo  Ven Conmigo is the second album release by Tejano singer Selena y Los Dinos under EMI Latin. The album includes a musical variety of rancheras, cumbias, ballads, and pop. A.B. Quintanilla, the producer, enlisted the participation of David Lee Garza, an accordion player for the title track, Ven Conmigo. The group recorded La Tracalera, a cover version of a song by the original Dinos, and Aunque No Salga el Sol in 1984. The song Baila Esta Cumbia was an instant success in the U.S. and crossed over later on to Mexico. The album cover was photographed in black and white because Selena dyed her hair jet black the night before and got some on her face. Ven Conmigo was the group's first Gold album. A remastered version was released in 2002.
Selena  Entre a Mi Mundo  Entre a Mi Mundo was the third studio album release by Tejano singer Selena under EMI Latin, a month after her marriage to guitarist Chris Perez. When this album was released, the label was starting to explore alternatives to spread Selena's talent throughout Latin markets other than Tejano. The song Como La Flor, written by A.B. Quintanilla and Pete Astudillo became Selena's trademark song. The track quickly became Selena's first number one. Also from this album, La Carcacha became a great success, with the band traveling to Monterrey, Mexico to film their first music video for this song. Although Selena had tried her hand at English-language work before, the track Missing My Baby was a first in the R&amp;B genre. With a re-release of this album under a different title in Mexico, the hits from this album allowed Selena to perform her first ever solo concert in Mexico, drawing in more than 100,000 fans. Also part of the more mainstream mix in this album is Amame, with Selena showcasing her range as a Latin pop artist. The album was given a Premio Lo Nuestro for Regional Mexican Album of the Year which was shared with La Mafia's Estas Tocando Fuego. A remastered version of Entre a Mi Mundo was released in 2002 with Buenos Amigos, a hit duet with El Salvadoran Álvaro Torres as a bonus track.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Entre a Mi Mundo  Entre a Mi Mundo was the third studio album release by Tejano singer Selena under EMI Latin, a month after her marriage to guitarist Chris Perez. When this album was released, the label was starting to explore alternatives to spread Selena's talent throughout Latin markets other than Tejano. The song Como La Flor, written by A.B. Quintanilla and Pete Astudillo became Selena's trademark song. The track quickly became Selena's first number one. Also from this album, La Carcacha became a great success, with the band traveling to Monterrey, Mexico to film their first music video for this song. Although Selena had tried her hand at English-language work before, the track Missing My Baby was a first in the R&amp;B genre. With a re-release of this album under a different title in Mexico, the hits from this album allowed Selena to perform her first ever solo concert in Mexico, drawing in more than 100,000 fans. Also part of the more mainstream mix in this album is Amame, with Selena showcasing her range as a Latin pop artist. The album was given a Premio Lo Nuestro for Regional Mexican Album of the Year which was shared with La Mafia's Estas Tocando Fuego. A remastered version of Entre a Mi Mundo was released in 2002 with Buenos Amigos, a hit duet with El Salvadoran Álvaro Torres as a bonus track.
Selena  Selena (album)  Selena is the debut album by Selena under the EMI Latin label. At the time of its release, Selena was already a star on the Tejano market as the recipient of several Tejano Music Awards. This album was presented to a larger audience as the direction that Selena would take as a performer and trendsetter. The song My Love, was written by Selena and samples from contemporary pop influences. Other songs like Sukiyaki (a cover of Kyu Sakamoto's 1963 hit), Amame, Quiéreme (her first duet with Pete Astudillo), and the cumbia Besitos, played a pivotal role on how Selena mixed rhythm and sound, which became her trademark. Also, this was the first album to use the Selena logo instead of the capital SELENA Y LOS DINOS.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena (album)  Selena is the debut album by Selena under the EMI Latin label. At the time of its release, Selena was already a star on the Tejano market as the recipient of several Tejano Music Awards. This album was presented to a larger audience as the direction that Selena would take as a performer and trendsetter. The song My Love, was written by Selena and samples from contemporary pop influences. Other songs like Sukiyaki (a cover of Kyu Sakamoto's 1963 hit), Amame, Quiéreme (her first duet with Pete Astudillo), and the cumbia Besitos, played a pivotal role on how Selena mixed rhythm and sound, which became her trademark. Also, this was the first album to use the Selena logo instead of the capital SELENA Y LOS DINOS.
Selena  Selena Live!  Selena Live! is a Grammy-award winning live album released by Tejano singer Selena on May 4, 1993. It was recorded during a show in Selena's hometown of Corpus Christi, Texas at the Memorial Coliseum on February 7, 1993. The album includes a live collection of Selena's greatest hits at that time, as well as three new tracks: No Debes Jugar, La Llamada, and Tú Robaste Mi Corazón a duet with Emilio Navaira. The album won the award for Best Mexican-American album at the 1994 Grammys. This album was released in Mexico under the title Selena Y Los Dinos - En Vivo. The tracks were in different order than the U.S. version. The album has been certified Gold in the U.S.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Live!  Selena Live! is a Grammy-award winning live album released by Tejano singer Selena on May 4, 1993. It was recorded during a show in Selena's hometown of Corpus Christi, Texas at the Memorial Coliseum on February 7, 1993. The album includes a live collection of Selena's greatest hits at that time, as well as three new tracks: No Debes Jugar, La Llamada, and Tú Robaste Mi Corazón a duet with Emilio Navaira. The album won the award for Best Mexican-American album at the 1994 Grammys. This album was released in Mexico under the title Selena Y Los Dinos - En Vivo. The tracks were in different order than the U.S. version. The album has been certified Gold in the U.S.
Selena  Mis Primeros Éxitos  Mis Primeros Éxitos is a compilation of Selena's greatest hits before joining EMI Latin. This album was produced by A.B. Quintanilla and the songs were re-recorded in Weslaco, Texas. The songs on this album show why Selena was already a star on the Tejano market, being the recipient of several Tejano Music Awards. Included on Mis Primeros Éxitos are songs like Tú no sabes by Ricky Vela, the first mariachi song recorded by Selena and an outstanding performance of Costumbres, a Juan Gabriel classic. Dame Un Beso by A.B. Quintanilla III and Ricky Vela would also be a typical song that describes what Selena Y Los Dinos were at the time.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Mis Primeros Éxitos  Mis Primeros Éxitos is a compilation of Selena's greatest hits before joining EMI Latin. This album was produced by A.B. Quintanilla and the songs were re-recorded in Weslaco, Texas. The songs on this album show why Selena was already a star on the Tejano market, being the recipient of several Tejano Music Awards. Included on Mis Primeros Éxitos are songs like Tú no sabes by Ricky Vela, the first mariachi song recorded by Selena and an outstanding performance of Costumbres, a Juan Gabriel classic. Dame Un Beso by A.B. Quintanilla III and Ricky Vela would also be a typical song that describes what Selena Y Los Dinos were at the time.
Selena  Preciosa (album)  Preciosa is the sixth album released by Selena Y Los Dinos before signing on to EMI Latin. At this point, Selena's albums began selling up to 20,000 copies. During that same year, she was the finalist for Female Vocalist of the Year while the song Terco Corazón was nominated for Single of the year and A.B. Quintanilla III was nominated for Songwriter of the Year at the Tejano Music Awards.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Preciosa (album)  Preciosa is the sixth album released by Selena Y Los Dinos before signing on to EMI Latin. At this point, Selena's albums began selling up to 20,000 copies. During that same year, she was the finalist for Female Vocalist of the Year while the song Terco Corazón was nominated for Single of the year and A.B. Quintanilla III was nominated for Songwriter of the Year at the Tejano Music Awards.
Selena  Dulce Amor  Dulce Amor was the last studio album released by Selena Y Los Dinos before signing on to EMI.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Dulce Amor  Dulce Amor was the last studio album released by Selena Y Los Dinos before signing on to EMI.
Selena  And the Winner Is...  And the Winner Is (Originally released as Female Vocalist of The Year and The Winner Is... Selena &amp; Los Dinos) is the fifth album released by Selena Y Los Dinos. It was released in the same year Selena, then 15, won a Tejano Music Award for best female vocalist and performer of the year.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  And the Winner Is...  And the Winner Is (Originally released as Female Vocalist of The Year and The Winner Is... Selena &amp; Los Dinos) is the fifth album released by Selena Y Los Dinos. It was released in the same year Selena, then 15, won a Tejano Music Award for best female vocalist and performer of the year.
Selena  Muñequito de Trapo  Muñequito de Trapo is the fourth release by Selena y Los Dinos.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Muñequito de Trapo  Muñequito de Trapo is the fourth release by Selena y Los Dinos.
Selena  Alpha (Selena album)  Alpha is the third album released by Selena Y Los Dinos, the second album from after The New Girl in Town, which was released in 1985. When Selena was beginning to emerge as a star, A.B. III became a songwriter and producer. One of his first songs, Dame Un Beso became a moderate success. Alpha led Selena win for Female Vocalist of the Year at 1987 Hispanic Music Awards and was voted for Female Vocalist of the Year and Performer of the Year at the Tejano Music Awards.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Alpha (Selena album)  Alpha is the third album released by Selena Y Los Dinos, the second album from after The New Girl in Town, which was released in 1985. When Selena was beginning to emerge as a star, A.B. III became a songwriter and producer. One of his first songs, Dame Un Beso became a moderate success. Alpha led Selena win for Female Vocalist of the Year at 1987 Hispanic Music Awards and was voted for Female Vocalist of the Year and Performer of the Year at the Tejano Music Awards.
Selena  Mis Primeras Grabaciones  Mis Primeras Grabaciones (originally released as Selena Y Los Dinos) is the debut album by Selena Y Los Dinos under Freddie Records. The album never did so well despite its radio play of Ya Se Va track. It was re-released in 1995 when Selena's father Abraham Quintanilla bought the rights from Freddie Records. During the recording sessions for Selena y los Dinos/Mis Primeras Grabaciones, Selena only needed a few cuts, unlike many artists older than her. Despite her professionalism and existing talent, Freddie Records felt that Selena needed more time to develop. Abraham refused to accept this explanation which implied that Selena was somehow responsible for the dismal reception of Selena y los Dinos/Mis Primeras Grabaciones, and moved the band to Cara Records and then to Manny label.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Mis Primeras Grabaciones  Mis Primeras Grabaciones (originally released as Selena Y Los Dinos) is the debut album by Selena Y Los Dinos under Freddie Records. The album never did so well despite its radio play of Ya Se Va track. It was re-released in 1995 when Selena's father Abraham Quintanilla bought the rights from Freddie Records. During the recording sessions for Selena y los Dinos/Mis Primeras Grabaciones, Selena only needed a few cuts, unlike many artists older than her. Despite her professionalism and existing talent, Freddie Records felt that Selena needed more time to develop. Abraham refused to accept this explanation which implied that Selena was somehow responsible for the dismal reception of Selena y los Dinos/Mis Primeras Grabaciones, and moved the band to Cara Records and then to Manny label.
Selena  Dreaming of You (album)  Dreaming of You is the fifth and final studio album, and second compilation album, by Mexican American Tejano pop singer Selena. The album was first released on July 18, 1995, and was re-released, being part of the 20 Years of Music Collection series, on September 24, 2002, with extra tracks, music videos, and spoken liner notes by her family, friends, and her former band, by EMI Records and EMI Latin. The album itself is classified as a double album with unreleased English language tracks and Spanish language tracks that were previously released prior to the album's release, which was given a Caribbean remix like dance hall and reggae. The album incorporates slow and mid-tempo R&amp;B ballads and pop songs, while the rest of the album incorporates Latin-inflected grooves. Debuting at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, it sold more than 330,000 units in its first week, making her the first Hispanic singer to accomplish this feat, and Dreaming of You the second highest debut after Michael Jackson's HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. On its release date, the album sold over 175,000 copies, a record for a female pop singer. Critics received the album with mixed to positive reviews with many of them stating that Dreaming of You was not Selena's peak as an artist, while stating that her previous record, Amor Prohibido, is a more consistent release that it was an effective introduction, and showed why she was adored by Tejano fans alike. Dreaming of You has proven commercially successful, selling over 2,000,000 copies in its first year. Dreaming of You was among the Top ten best-selling debuts of all time along with being the best-selling debuts for a female artist. In July 1995, Dreaming of You joined five of Selena's studio albums that remained on the top ten of Billboard Top 50 Latin Albums. Dreaming of You also became the highest ranking Spanish language album to chart Billboard Top Latin Albums.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Dreaming of You (album)  Dreaming of You is the fifth and final studio album, and second compilation album, by Mexican American Tejano pop singer Selena. The album was first released on July 18, 1995, and was re-released, being part of the 20 Years of Music Collection series, on September 24, 2002, with extra tracks, music videos, and spoken liner notes by her family, friends, and her former band, by EMI Records and EMI Latin. The album itself is classified as a double album with unreleased English language tracks and Spanish language tracks that were previously released prior to the album's release, which was given a Caribbean remix like dance hall and reggae. The album incorporates slow and mid-tempo R&amp;B ballads and pop songs, while the rest of the album incorporates Latin-inflected grooves. Debuting at number one on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart, it sold more than 330,000 units in its first week, making her the first Hispanic singer to accomplish this feat, and Dreaming of You the second highest debut after Michael Jackson's HIStory: Past, Present and Future, Book I. On its release date, the album sold over 175,000 copies, a record for a female pop singer. Critics received the album with mixed to positive reviews with many of them stating that Dreaming of You was not Selena's peak as an artist, while stating that her previous record, Amor Prohibido, is a more consistent release that it was an effective introduction, and showed why she was adored by Tejano fans alike. Dreaming of You has proven commercially successful, selling over 2,000,000 copies in its first year. Dreaming of You was among the Top ten best-selling debuts of all time along with being the best-selling debuts for a female artist. In July 1995, Dreaming of You joined five of Selena's studio albums that remained on the top ten of Billboard Top 50 Latin Albums. Dreaming of You also became the highest ranking Spanish language album to chart Billboard Top Latin Albums.
Selena  12 Super Exitos  12 Super Exitos is a compilation of Selena's greatest hits released in 1994 by EMI Latin. This album was a promotional album that was helping Selena with charity funds and other funds that help children and people alike. This album is also the last album that Selena released as a greatest hits before her death just a few months after this album was released. Right after 12 Super Exitos was released Selena began working on her crossover album set to released in the summer of 1995.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  12 Super Exitos  12 Super Exitos is a compilation of Selena's greatest hits released in 1994 by EMI Latin. This album was a promotional album that was helping Selena with charity funds and other funds that help children and people alike. This album is also the last album that Selena released as a greatest hits before her death just a few months after this album was released. Right after 12 Super Exitos was released Selena began working on her crossover album set to released in the summer of 1995.
Selena  17 Super Exitos  17 Super Exitos is a compilation of Selena's hits released in 1993 by EMI Latin.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  17 Super Exitos  17 Super Exitos is a compilation of Selena's hits released in 1993 by EMI Latin.
Selena  Personal Best (Selena album)  Personal Best is a greatest hits album by Selena.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Personal Best (Selena album)  Personal Best is a greatest hits album by Selena.
Selena  Exitos y Recuerdos  Exitos y Recuerdos is a greatest hits collection by Selena, released a year after she was tragically killed. This album has been released with different covers and also with the name Exitos del Recuerdos the titles were Madacy, Rain, Pink, Sun, and Special Markets. The release with the flower shirt picture has a misspelling on the back. It reads 'Come la Flor' instead of 'Como La Flor'.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Exitos y Recuerdos  Exitos y Recuerdos is a greatest hits collection by Selena, released a year after she was tragically killed. This album has been released with different covers and also with the name Exitos del Recuerdos the titles were Madacy, Rain, Pink, Sun, and Special Markets. The release with the flower shirt picture has a misspelling on the back. It reads 'Come la Flor' instead of 'Como La Flor'.
Selena  Siempre Selena  Siempre Selena combines remixes of recordings Selena made as a teenager with a couple of later, previously-unreleased tracks. Like Dreaming of You, the 1995 album that documented her final English-language recording sessions and added some concurrent Latin hits. It features the romantic mariachi song Siempre Hace Frio which went to number two on Billboard's Hot Latin Tracks. It also includes a remix of No Quiero Saber which was featured on the official Latin album for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Siempre Selena  Siempre Selena combines remixes of recordings Selena made as a teenager with a couple of later, previously-unreleased tracks. Like Dreaming of You, the 1995 album that documented her final English-language recording sessions and added some concurrent Latin hits. It features the romantic mariachi song Siempre Hace Frio which went to number two on Billboard's Hot Latin Tracks. It also includes a remix of No Quiero Saber which was featured on the official Latin album for the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia.
Selena  Selena (soundtrack)  Selena: The Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album to the film, Selena, starring Jennifer Lopez and featuring unreleased songs by Selena, including Where Did the Feeling Go?, Only Love, Is It the Beat? and Disco Medley. Although this is the official soundtrack accompaniment of the film, it does not feature most of the songs heard throughout the film from artists like Depeche Mode, Guns N' Roses, John Waite, &amp; Yuri.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena (soundtrack)  Selena: The Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album to the film, Selena, starring Jennifer Lopez and featuring unreleased songs by Selena, including Where Did the Feeling Go?, Only Love, Is It the Beat? and Disco Medley. Although this is the official soundtrack accompaniment of the film, it does not feature most of the songs heard throughout the film from artists like Depeche Mode, Guns N' Roses, John Waite, &amp; Yuri.
Selena  Anthology (Selena album)  Anthology is a three-disc/three-cassette box set that provides a comprehensive overview of Selena's brief career. The set is divided into three parts—a disc of mariachi, a disc of cumbia and a disc of pop recordings, many of which are in English. Most but not all are either Remix, Club Remix, or different style, and version of all songs listed here.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Anthology (Selena album)  Anthology is a three-disc/three-cassette box set that provides a comprehensive overview of Selena's brief career. The set is divided into three parts—a disc of mariachi, a disc of cumbia and a disc of pop recordings, many of which are in English. Most but not all are either Remix, Club Remix, or different style, and version of all songs listed here.
Selena  All My Hits Vol.1  All My Hits Vol. 1 is a compilation of Selena's greatest songs. It also features a commemorative gold rose pin with her name on it.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  All My Hits Vol.1  All My Hits Vol. 1 is a compilation of Selena's greatest songs. It also features a commemorative gold rose pin with her name on it.
Selena  All My Hits Vol. 2  All My Hits Vol. 2 is a follow-up to All My Hits Vol.1 by Selena. It was released in 2000 by EMI Latin. As an added bonus It features a small heart locket with her picture in it.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  All My Hits Vol. 2  All My Hits Vol. 2 is a follow-up to All My Hits Vol.1 by Selena. It was released in 2000 by EMI Latin. As an added bonus It features a small heart locket with her picture in it.
Selena  Live! The Last Concert  Live: The Last Concert was recorded on February 26, 1995, at the Houston Astrodome. The concert was performed entirely live in front of more than 61,000 people. The music performed was mostly from Selena's last Spanish album, Amor Prohibido. Live: The Last Concert was re-released as a DVD in 2004. The album has been certified Platinum (Latin type) by RIAA with shipments of 200,000 copies.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Live! The Last Concert  Live: The Last Concert was recorded on February 26, 1995, at the Houston Astrodome. The concert was performed entirely live in front of more than 61,000 people. The music performed was mostly from Selena's last Spanish album, Amor Prohibido. Live: The Last Concert was re-released as a DVD in 2004. The album has been certified Platinum (Latin type) by RIAA with shipments of 200,000 copies.
Selena  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1 features songs from Selena's early years.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1 features songs from Selena's early years.
Selena  Ones  Ones is a collection of Selena's Spanish and English hits. The Limited Edition version also has a bonus DVD which contains all her videos. The album has been certified 5x Platinum (Latin type) by RIAA with shipments of 500,000 copies.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Ones  Ones is a collection of Selena's Spanish and English hits. The Limited Edition version also has a bonus DVD which contains all her videos. The album has been certified 5x Platinum (Latin type) by RIAA with shipments of 500,000 copies.
Selena  Greatest Hits (Selena album)  Greatest Hits is a collection of most of the English songs by the late American Tejano-pop singer Selena. It contains all of her English songs from her Dreaming of You album, as well as both regularly and posthumously released English songs she had made throughout her career. The album has sold about 100,000 copies in the U.S. and about 1 million worldwide. Don't Throw Away My Love is a remix of My Love. There are two English songs that Selena recorded but did not appear on the album: Call Me, and Give Me One More Chance both from the 1984 Selena y los Dinos album.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Greatest Hits (Selena album)  Greatest Hits is a collection of most of the English songs by the late American Tejano-pop singer Selena. It contains all of her English songs from her Dreaming of You album, as well as both regularly and posthumously released English songs she had made throughout her career. The album has sold about 100,000 copies in the U.S. and about 1 million worldwide. Don't Throw Away My Love is a remix of My Love. There are two English songs that Selena recorded but did not appear on the album: Call Me, and Give Me One More Chance both from the 1984 Selena y los Dinos album.
Selena  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 2  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 2 is a compilation album by Mexican American singer Selena. It is the first of 4 followup albums to Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1. Just like the previous album, it is a collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 2  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 2 is a compilation album by Mexican American singer Selena. It is the first of 4 followup albums to Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 1. Just like the previous album, it is a collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena  Momentos Intimos  Mementos Intimos is a greatest hits album by Mexican-American Tejano singer Selena, released in 2004. The album has sold over 100,000 copies in the U.S. and approximately 900,000 copies worldwide. Inside of the CD there is a short story from Selena's husband, Chris Pérez, about the song Puede Ser that was Selena's final recording from March 17, 1995.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Momentos Intimos  Mementos Intimos is a greatest hits album by Mexican-American Tejano singer Selena, released in 2004. The album has sold over 100,000 copies in the U.S. and approximately 900,000 copies worldwide. Inside of the CD there is a short story from Selena's husband, Chris Pérez, about the song Puede Ser that was Selena's final recording from March 17, 1995.
Selena  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 3  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 3 (Selena and Her Beginnings) is the third collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 3  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 3 (Selena and Her Beginnings) is the third collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 4  Selena y Sus Inicios Vol. 4 (Selena and Her Beginnings) is the fourth collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Y Sus Inicios Vol. 4  Selena y Sus Inicios Vol. 4 (Selena and Her Beginnings) is the fourth collection of Selena's early recordings.
Selena  Dos Historias  Dos Historias is a 2006 greatest hits album featuring the music of American Tejano singers Selena and Ana Bárbara.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Dos Historias  Dos Historias is a 2006 greatest hits album featuring the music of American Tejano singers Selena and Ana Bárbara.
Selena  Todos Mis Exitos, Volume 2  Todos Mis Exitos, Volume 2 is the second greatest hits package released after Selena's death on March 31, 1995. This is the follow up to the previous album, Todos Mis Exitos.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Todos Mis Exitos, Volume 2  Todos Mis Exitos, Volume 2 is the second greatest hits package released after Selena's death on March 31, 1995. This is the follow up to the previous album, Todos Mis Exitos.
Selena  Unforgettable (Selena album)  Unforgettable is a four piece set celebrating the life of the late Tejano single Selena. On March 29, 2005, Unforgettable: Limited Edition was released. The set consisted of two albums (which were released on the same day as separate discs): Unforgettable: The Live Album and Unforgettable: The Studio Album. A week later, Unforgettable: Ultimate Edition was released, which combined the studio and live album with two DVDs.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Unforgettable (Selena album)  Unforgettable is a four piece set celebrating the life of the late Tejano single Selena. On March 29, 2005, Unforgettable: Limited Edition was released. The set consisted of two albums (which were released on the same day as separate discs): Unforgettable: The Live Album and Unforgettable: The Studio Album. A week later, Unforgettable: Ultimate Edition was released, which combined the studio and live album with two DVDs.
Selena  Through The Years/A Traves de los Años  Through the Years/A Traves de los Años is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on April 3, 2007. It comes as a CD/DVD set that includes Selena's songs,unreleased performances, and also an unreleased track titled Feelings recorded when she was 7 years old. The album peaked at number 28 on the Latin Album Chart and was certified Gold.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Through The Years/A Traves de los Años  Through the Years/A Traves de los Años is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on April 3, 2007. It comes as a CD/DVD set that includes Selena's songs,unreleased performances, and also an unreleased track titled Feelings recorded when she was 7 years old. The album peaked at number 28 on the Latin Album Chart and was certified Gold.
Selena  Forever Selena  Forever Selena is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on September 18, 2007. It comes as a 3-CD box set that includes Selena's songs that were released both before and after Selena's unfortunate murder.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Forever Selena  Forever Selena is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on September 18, 2007. It comes as a 3-CD box set that includes Selena's songs that were released both before and after Selena's unfortunate murder.
Selena  Serie Verde  Serie Verde is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on September 25, 2007. It comes with 10 songs in which songs that have previously been released before and after Selena's death.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Serie Verde  Serie Verde is a collection of Selena's greatest hits. It was released on September 25, 2007. It comes with 10 songs in which songs that have previously been released before and after Selena's death.
Selena  Inolvidable (album)  Inolvidable is a collection of Selena's early recordings. It was released on March 31, 2009, as a two-CD box set. The discs are re-issues of the albums, Alpha and Muñequito de Trapo, that were re-released as part of Selena's Classic Series in 2006.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Inolvidable (album)  Inolvidable is a collection of Selena's early recordings. It was released on March 31, 2009, as a two-CD box set. The discs are re-issues of the albums, Alpha and Muñequito de Trapo, that were re-released as part of Selena's Classic Series in 2006.
Selena  Las Reinas Del Pueblo  Las Reinas Del Pueblo English: The Queens of The People is a 1995 greatest hits album featuring the music of American Tejano singer La Reina del TexMex Selena and La Reina De La Banda Graciela Beltrán. The Album has sold 5 million copies worldwide.. The album spent four weeks on the Billboard Charts in North America.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Las Reinas Del Pueblo  Las Reinas Del Pueblo English: The Queens of The People is a 1995 greatest hits album featuring the music of American Tejano singer La Reina del TexMex Selena and La Reina De La Banda Graciela Beltrán. The Album has sold 5 million copies worldwide.. The album spent four weeks on the Billboard Charts in North America.
Selena  The New Girl in Town  The New Girl in Town is the second released album by Selena Y Los Dinos. The album comprises ten tracks, some of which were covers of songs performed by other artists before Selena, while the rest were written by Selena's father Abraham Quintanilla, Jr.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  The New Girl in Town  The New Girl in Town is the second released album by Selena Y Los Dinos. The album comprises ten tracks, some of which were covers of songs performed by other artists before Selena, while the rest were written by Selena's father Abraham Quintanilla, Jr.
Selena  Baila Esta Cumbia  Baila Esta Cumbia is the fourth studio album released from EMI by Selena. Baila Esta Cumbia was released in 1992 in Mexico. The album is a compilation album featuring 12 previously released tracks.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Baila Esta Cumbia  Baila Esta Cumbia is the fourth studio album released from EMI by Selena. Baila Esta Cumbia was released in 1992 in Mexico. The album is a compilation album featuring 12 previously released tracks.
Selena  La Leyenda  La Leyenda is the name of the 66th posthumous release and 3rd box set from the Tejano pop singer Selena that was released by Capitol Latin/EMI and Q-Productions labels. The album was released on March 9, 2010. This box set was released in three formats: a four-disc box set, a two-disc special-edition album, and a single-disc album. According to Suzette Quintanilla's YouTube video, EMI teamed up with Q-Productions (a division of Selena's father's recording studio) to release this box set, and Quintanilla asks Selena fans around the world to contribute a special message to Selena that may or may not be included in the new box set. The Box-sets will contain an exclusive Selena charm and four booklets that include messages from Selena's family, friends, and fans from around the world. Selena fans around the world were told to collaborate pictures of themselves to be part of the La Leyenda bound books, but in early February 2010, Q-Productions and EMI Latin decided to cancel the transaction due to legal actions with copyrighted images from fans.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  La Leyenda  La Leyenda is the name of the 66th posthumous release and 3rd box set from the Tejano pop singer Selena that was released by Capitol Latin/EMI and Q-Productions labels. The album was released on March 9, 2010. This box set was released in three formats: a four-disc box set, a two-disc special-edition album, and a single-disc album. According to Suzette Quintanilla's YouTube video, EMI teamed up with Q-Productions (a division of Selena's father's recording studio) to release this box set, and Quintanilla asks Selena fans around the world to contribute a special message to Selena that may or may not be included in the new box set. The Box-sets will contain an exclusive Selena charm and four booklets that include messages from Selena's family, friends, and fans from around the world. Selena fans around the world were told to collaborate pictures of themselves to be part of the La Leyenda bound books, but in early February 2010, Q-Productions and EMI Latin decided to cancel the transaction due to legal actions with copyrighted images from fans.
Selena  Selena Remembered  Selena Remembered is a DVD/CD by Mexican-American Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, released on April 1, 1997 on VHS and on January 25, 2005 on DVD. The DVD features Edward James Olmos narrating special moments and triumphs that helped Selena, and her band Selena Y Los Dinos, into superstardom in North America. The DVD's logo Her Life, Her Music, and Her Dream are featured on both the DVD and CD covers.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena Remembered  Selena Remembered is a DVD/CD by Mexican-American Tejano singer Selena Quintanilla-Perez, released on April 1, 1997 on VHS and on January 25, 2005 on DVD. The DVD features Edward James Olmos narrating special moments and triumphs that helped Selena, and her band Selena Y Los Dinos, into superstardom in North America. The DVD's logo Her Life, Her Music, and Her Dream are featured on both the DVD and CD covers.
Selena  Quiero (album)  Quiero... is a compilation album released by Selena y Los Dinos, in Mexico. The album was released in 1993, to promote the band, to tour in Mexico. The album features songs, taken from 16 Super Exitos Originales, Ven Conmigo, Entre A Mi Mundo, and Live! albums.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Quiero (album)  Quiero... is a compilation album released by Selena y Los Dinos, in Mexico. The album was released in 1993, to promote the band, to tour in Mexico. The album features songs, taken from 16 Super Exitos Originales, Ven Conmigo, Entre A Mi Mundo, and Live! albums.
Selena  Como La Flor (Selena album)  Como La Flor is a compilation album released for Selena Quintanilla-Pérez, in 1994, by CAPITOL/EMI Venezuela. The album features songs, taken from Selena, 16 Super Exitos Originales, Ven Conmigo, Entre A Mi Mundo, Selena Live!, and Amor Prohibido.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Como La Flor (Selena album)  Como La Flor is a compilation album released for Selena Quintanilla-Pérez, in 1994, by CAPITOL/EMI Venezuela. The album features songs, taken from Selena, 16 Super Exitos Originales, Ven Conmigo, Entre A Mi Mundo, Selena Live!, and Amor Prohibido.
Shania Twain  Shania Twain (album)  Shania Twain is the self-titled debut album by Shania Twain, originally released in 1993. Although not a hit when originally released, Twain's more recent successful albums gained her legions of fans, which has generated more interest in Shania Twain causing it to be certified platinum in the U.S. for shipments of one million copies. None of the songs were included in Shania Twain Greatest Hits Package.
Shania Twain  Up! (album)  Up! is the fourth studio album released in 2002 by Canadian singer Shania Twain. Three versions of the album were released: a country version (green disc), a pop version (red disc) and an international version (blue disc) in the style of Indian film music; all three discs contain exactly the same track listing and featured identifiable picture labels (for example, Shania sports a cowboy hat on the green country disc. ) The country and pop versions were released together in North America, while the pop and international versions were released together outside of the U.S. and Canada. In the U.S. , Up! debuted at number one with sales of 874,000 copies; to date, the album has sold over 16 million copies worldwide and one of the best selling abums of the ’00s decade worldwide, across any genre of music.
Shania Twain  The Woman in Me (Shania Twain album)  The Woman in Me is the Grammy award-winning second studio album by Shania Twain, released in 1995. The album was certified 12× platinum, denoting shipments of 12 million albums in the United States and won as the Best Country Album of 1996. It has sold 15 million copies, worldwide, to date.
Shania Twain  Come On Over (Shania Twain album)  Come on Over is the third studio album recorded by Canadian singer Shania Twain. It was released on November 4, 1997. It is the best-selling country music album of all time, the best selling album ever by a female artist and one of the best-selling albums
Shania Twain  Greatest Hits (Shania Twain album)  Greatest Hits is a greatest hits compilation album by Shania Twain, released in 2004. The album contains 21 tracks from her three Diamond albums The Woman in Me, Come on Over and Up!. Also included are three new songs: Party for Two which hit the top ten at country in the U.S. and top ten in UK and Germany, the ballad Don't! and I Ain't No Quitter. Greatest Hits finished 2005 as the highest selling country album in the U.S.. As of November 17, 2006 the album has sold approximately 3,540,000 million retail units in the United States. According to her official myspace, Shania Twain's Greatest Hits has sold more than four million copies in the US. As of April 17, 2008, the album has been certified 4× platinum in the US. It received a second platinum certification in the UK
Shania Twain  The Complete Limelight Sessions  The Complete Limelight Sessions is a collection of songs recorded by singer Shania Twain, before she signed a record deal with Mercury Nashville in 1993. It was released in North America on October 23, 2001 following the massive success of Come on Over. It is the only official collection of Twain's early work, however many bootleg albums were released around the same time. The album was promoted by remixes of It's Alright, Twain's only song to chart on Billboards Hot Dance Club Play chart. (The Heart is Blind was released as a single to country radio, but didn't get enough airplay to enter Billboards Hot Country Songs chart. The album was released in July 2000 throughout Europe on the RWP Label as Wild and Wicked and originally came with a free poster . The tracklisting was identical although several tracks were re-arranged in playing order. It charted on the UK Album Charts at No. 62 for two weeks. The tracks on this album were remastered by the original producer, and released with Shania's blessing; all other versions were released without consent from Shania or the producer.
Sharleen Spiteri  Melody (Sharleen Spiteri album)  Melody is the debut solo album from Scottish Texas lead singer, Sharleen Spiteri. It was released on July 14. 2008 and went straight to #3 in the United Kingdom album charts. The first single from the album was All The Times I Cried.
Sharleen Spiteri  The Movie Songbook  The Movie Songbook is the second studio album by Scottish singer-songwriter Sharleen Spiteri. It was released on 1 March 2010. The album consists of movie covers, chosen and recorded by Spiteri herself in 2009.
Stevie Wonder  Songs in the Key of Life  Songs in the Key of Life is an album by American musician Stevie Wonder, released on Motown on September 28, 1976. It was the last of five consecutive albums widely hailed as his classic period along with Music of My Mind, Talking Book, Innervisions and Fulfillingness' First Finale. An ambitious double LP with a 4-song bonus EP, Songs in the Key of Life became among the best-selling and most critically acclaimed albums of his career. In 2003, the album was ranked number 56 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.
Stevie Wonder  Talking Book  Talking Book is the fifteenth album by Stevie Wonder, released on October 27, 1972. It was the second of five consecutive albums referred to as his classic period, along with Music of My Mind, Innervisions, Fulfillingness' First Finale, and Songs in the Key of Life.
Stevie Wonder  Stevie Wonder's Journey Through The Secret Life of Plants  Stevie Wonder's Journey Through The Secret Life of Plants is an album by Stevie Wonder, originally released on the Tamla Motown label on October 30, 1979. It is the soundtrack to the documentary The Secret Life of Plants, directed by Walon Green which was based on the book of the same name by Peter Tompkins and Christopher Bird. Coming after Stevie Wonder's 1976 Grammy Award-winning Songs in the Key of Life, Journey through the Secret Life of Plants was panned by most critics and was confusing to many fans, who didn't know what to make of the conceptual, mostly instrumental double album. Even so, such was Wonder's commercial appeal at the time that Journey went all way up to number four in the Rock and R&amp;B Billboard charts in 1979, with the single Send One Your Love also reaching number four. It is now considered by many to be a classic in its own right. It is also considered, in many listeners's minds, to be one of the earliest New Age albums of all time, mainly in part because of the nature and instrumental songs on the album. The album cover contained some braille, and when you unsealed and opened it, you smelled a flowery perfume. Although written mostly by Stevie Wonder, a couple of songs were collaborations with former wife Syreeta Wright and with Michael Sembello. Journey Through The Secret Life of Plants contained unusual synthesizer combinations including the first use of a digital sampling synthesizer, the Computer Music Melodian, used in virtually every track of the album. Journey is also notable for being an early digital recording, released three months after Ry Cooder's Bop till You Drop, generally believed to be the first digitally recorded popular music album. Stevie Wonder was an early adherent of the technology and used it for all his subsequent recordings. Stevie's moderate-hit song Overjoyed was left off this album and rewritten and re-recorded for his 1985 album In Square Circle. The cover of the album was chosen as the 53rd greatest album cover of all time by Rolling Stone in 1991.
Stevie Wonder  A Time to Love  A Time to Love is a 2005 studio album by Stevie Wonder, his first since 1995's Conversation Peace. Originally to have been completed in 2004, it was finally released to stores on October 18, 2005, following an exclusive electronic release on Apple's iTunes Music Store on September 27. It is his 25th official studio album. The first single, issued in April 2005, was So What the Fuss, which featured Prince on guitar and En Vogue on backing vocals. Follow-up singles included Positivity with his daughter Aisha Morris, From the Bottom of My Heart, and Shelter in the Rain.
Stevie Wonder  Innervisions  Innervisions is an album by American musician Stevie Wonder, released August 3, 1973 on Motown Records. A landmark recording, it was the third of five consecutive albums widely hailed as his classic period, along with Music of My Mind, Talking Book, Fulfillingness' First Finale, and Songs in the Key of Life. The nine tracks that comprise Innervisions encompass a wide range of themes and issues: from drug abuse in Too High, social anger in Living for the City, to love; in the ballads All in Love is Fair and Golden Lady.  As with many of Stevie Wonder's albums the lyrics, composition and production are almost entirely his own work, with the ARP synthesizer used prominently throughout the album. This instrument was a common motif among musicians of the time because of its ability to construct a complete sound environment. Wonder was the first black artist to experiment with this technology on a mass scale, and Innervisions was hugely influential on the subsequent future of commercial black music. He also played all or virtually all instruments on six of the album's nine tracks, making most of Innervisions a representative one-man band.
Stevie Wonder  Hotter than July  Hotter than July is an album by Stevie Wonder, originally released on Motown's Tamla label on September 29, 1980. Despite the wide critical acclaim for Wonder's previous works such as Songs in the Key of Life and Innervisions, Hotter than July was his first album eligible for platinum status, as Motown sales records before 1977 were not audited by the Recording Industry Association of America
Stevie Wonder  A Toot and a Snore in '74  A Toot and a Snore in '74 is a bootleg album of the only known recording session in which John Lennon and Paul McCartney played together after the break-up of The Beatles. Mentioned by Lennon in a 1975 interview, details were brought to light in May Pang's 1983 book, Loving John, and it gained wider prominence when McCartney made reference to the session in a 1997 interview. Discussing with Australian writer Sean Sennett in his Soho office, McCartney claimed the session was hazy... for a number of reasons. The story is corroborated by biographies such as Christopher Sandford's 2006 McCartney.
Stevie Wonder  Music of My Mind  Music of My Mind is a landmark album by Stevie Wonder, released on March 3, 1972. It was the first of five consecutive albums widely hailed as his classic period, along with Talking Book, Innervisions, Fulfillingness' First Finale, and Songs in the Key of Life. Music of My Mind showcases Wonder's earlier experiments with the synthesizer, and is a more assured recording than Where I'm Coming From (his first effort while holding the majority of artistic control). Also on display were his increasing musical ambitions, with him leveraging different genres of music and utilizing longer song forms. Stevie used synthesizers for many musical parts on this album. He also played drums as he frequently does on all of his albums. The texture of the album was different from anything he had released on the Motown label to that point. Standout tracks include Superwoman (Where Were You When I Needed You), Happier Than The Morning Sun and I Love Every Little Thing About You. This is one of the earliest works in black music to include the use of synthesizers, and was the first of a set of collaborations between Stevie and his co-producers Robert Margouleff and Malcolm Cecil. In 2003, the album was ranked number 284 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. Its enduring influence was confirmed with its UK re-release on September 22, 2008 to coincide with Wonder's autumn 2008 European tour.
Stevie Wonder  Isn't She Lovely?  Isn't She Lovely? is a song by Stevie Wonder, from his 1976 album Songs in the Key of Life. In it he celebrates the birth of his daughter, Aisha. There are three verses, each ending with the phrase isn't she lovely, made from love (or so very lovely... ). The song opens with Aisha's cry and the lengthy outro features samples of her playing with Wonder. The song, musically constructed over a standardized circle-of-fifths, is considered an example of the fusion of fundamental jazz and pop elements.. Although the song was very popular and has received much radio airplay, it did not chart on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 because Stevie Wonder would not allow it to be released as a 45 RPM single even though requested to do so by Motown. Numerous other artists have performed Isn't She Lovely. A cover version by vocalist David Parton was a UK top ten hit in 1977. The song was also covered by the punk rock band Me First and the Gimme Gimmes on their album Take a Break. It was covered by the a cappella group The Idea of North on their album Evidence. Saxophonist Sonny Rollins included a cover of this song on his 1977 album Easy Living, rendered on soprano sax. Jazz fusion artist Lee Ritenour also covered the song in his 1977 album, Captain Fingers. Frank Sinatra recorded the song in 1979. Urban jazz saxophonist Najee covered the song from his Stevie Wonder tribute album Songs from the Key of Life.  Blues musician Keb' Mo' has also covered the song on his 2001 album Big Wide Grin. Another saxophonist, David Sanborn covered the song from his 2003 album Time Again.  Female a cappella group Noteworthy included a cover in their 2006 album On the Horizon. An instrumental version of the song was played after Michelle Obama's speech at the 2008 Democratic National Convention.
Stevie Wonder  Fulfillingness' First Finale  Fulfillingness' First Finale is a landmark album by Stevie Wonder, released on July 22, 1974. It was the fourth of five consecutive albums widely hailed as his classic period, along with Music of My Mind, Talking Book, Innervisions, and Songs in the Key of Life. Subsequent to the epic sweep and social consciousness of Innervisions, this set projected a reflective, decidedly somber tone. The musical arrangements used in several songs while masterful could be considered sparse in comparison to others among his 70s masterworks, evident especially in the bleak They Won't Go When I Go and understated Creepin'. While largely a stripped down, more personal sounding record, Wonder had not completely foregone commentary on the world around him. The No. 1 hit You Haven't Done Nothin' launched a pointed criticism of the Nixon administration bolstered by funky Clavinet, drum machine, and a Jackson 5 cameo. Fulfillingness' First Finale won Grammy Awards for Best Male Pop Vocal, Best Male Rhythm and Blues Vocal Performance, and Album of the Year in 1975. When Wonder took two years to record his follow-up album, this broke his consecutive Grammy streak and led to Paul Simon's famous quote thanking him for not releasing an album in 1975 (when Simon won the Album of the Year award for Still Crazy After All These Years).
Stevie Wonder  Where I'm Coming From  Where I'm Coming From is the thirteenth studio album released by Grammy Award-winning American singer Stevie Wonder on the Motown label on April 12, 1971. This album is considered a groundbreaking record for Wonder, in that it is the first album in which he had complete artistic freedom in its production (Stevie Wonder had taken charge of his own music starting with this album). It was the last album produced under his first contract with Motown Records. This is Stevie Wonder's thirteeneth album overall. The album was released on April 12, 1971 and debuted on the Billboard Pop Albums
Stevie Wonder  I Was Made to Love Her (album)  I Was Made to Love Her is an album by Stevie Wonder, released in 1967 under Motown Records.
Stevie Wonder  The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie  The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie is the 1962 debut album by Stevie Wonder (then billed as Little Stevie Wonder) on the Tamla label. The LP showcases the twelve-year-old Wonder's talents as a singer, songwriter, and instrumentalist. Wonder's mentors Clarence Paul and Henry Cosby wrote and produced the material on The Jazz Soul of Little Stevie Wonder, with young Wonder himself also co-writing two of the compositions. The original studio version of Fingertips is included on the album; a live version would become Wonder's first hit single.
Stevie Wonder  Tribute to Uncle Ray  Tribute to Uncle Ray is the second album released by Stevie Wonder during his Little Stevie Wonder phase in 1962. The album was a tribute to Wonder's mentor, fellow blind musician Ray Charles. The album was traditionally followed by other tribute albums to Nat King Cole and Sam Cooke by Marvin Gaye and The Supremes respectively. Like his debut, this album failed to generate hit singles as Motown struggled to find a sound to fit Wonder, who was only 12 when this album was released.
Stevie Wonder  Recorded Live: The 12 Year Old Genius  Recorded Live: The 12 Year Old Genius is the third album and first live album by Stevie Wonder on the Tamla label. Released in 1963, the album finally gained success for the child prodigy thanks to the famous raucous live version of Fingertips
Stevie Wonder  With a Song in My Heart (album)  With a Song In My Heart is a 1963 album by Stevie Wonder on the Tamla label. The album was the first to drop Wonder's Little nickname as the 13-year-old singer went the same route of his label mate Marvin Gaye and covered a set of standards. Like Gaye and other Motown acts, label president Berry Gordy wanted all of his artists to be established on a crossover basis. The album did not immediately spell success for Wonder on the adult contemporary set. Veteran jazz arranger Ernie Wilkins arranged and conducted the album.
Stevie Wonder  Stevie at the Beach  Stevie at the Beach is the fifth album by Motown singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder released on the Tamla label in 1964. This album—with the exception of the mild hit—Hey Harmonica Man, was a concept album of sorts, focusing on beach and surfer anthems as an attempt to get Wonder to now sing surf tunes. But much like the label's attempts to first make Wonder the teenage version of Ray Charles and then for one album as a lounge singer, it failed to connect with audiences. Wonder wouldn't have another hit until 1965 when he was finally allowed to showcase his musical talents more.
Stevie Wonder  Up-Tight  Up-Tight is a 1966 album by US singer Stevie Wonder. It was his sixth release.
Stevie Wonder  Down to Earth (Stevie Wonder album)  Down to Earth is a 1966 album by Motown singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder on the Tamla (Motown) label. The album was a departure from Wonder's earlier, teen pop-driven albums. This album and its predecessor, Up-Tight, re-established the sixteen-year-old Wonder, whose voice had recently changed, as a Motown hitmaker. The LP features the hit single A Place in the Sun. Another single, Hey Love, would go on to become a hit for Detroit soul singer Betty Lavette the following year.
Stevie Wonder  For Once in My Life (album)  For Once in My Life is a 1968 soul album released by singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder on Motown. Now eighteen years old, Wonder had established himself as one of Motown's consistent hitmakers. This album continued Wonder's growth as a vocalist, songwriter and producer. It featured classics like the title track, Shoo-Be-Doo-Be-Doo-Da-Day and the modest hits I Don't Know Why and You Met Your Match. It also marked the debut of the Hohner Clavinet on a Stevie Wonder album, that would become a mainstay on albums to come.
Stevie Wonder  Eivets Rednow (album)  Eivets Rednow is a 1968 instrumental album released by Stevie Wonder under the pseudonym Eivets Rednow on the Gordy label. The album was released almost in secret. Because of Motown establishing Wonder as a soul-pop shouter, the label agreed to release the album with Wonder's name backwards. This would be copied by other musicians over the years. Wonder only plays harmonica, drums, and clavinet on this album and doesn't sing on any of the tracks. How do you spell Stevie Wonder backwards is printed on the top corner of the album sleeve in small print, serving as a hint to the record buyer.
Stevie Wonder  My Cherie Amour (album)  My Cherie Amour is a 1969 album by American recording artist Stevie Wonder on the Tamla label. The album yielded a couple of major hits, including the title track and Yester-Me, Yester-You, Yesterday, as well as Wonder's takes on the 1967 hit Light My Fire by The Doors and Hello, Young Lovers from The King and I. The song My Cherie Amour is featured on the game Karaoke Revolution Presents: American Idol Encore. Urban jazz keyboardist Bob Baldwin covered the song off his 2008 album NewUrbanJazz. com.
Stevie Wonder  Signed, Sealed & Delivered  Signed, Sealed &amp; Delivered is Stevie Wonder's twelfth album on the Tamla label, released on August 7, 1970. Along with the hit title track, the album also featured the hits Heaven Help Us All, Never Had a Dream Come True, and Wonder's soul-styled cover of The Beatles' We Can Work It Out
Stevie Wonder  Stevie Wonder Live  Stevie Wonder Live is a 1970 live album by Stevie Wonder on the Tamla label. The second live collection by the singer-songwriter, it also was released during the crossroads of Wonder's career as he was about to make unprecedented moves to free himself of the Motown machine that had, at the time, not allowed him to showcase his singular talents.
Stevie Wonder  The Woman in Red (soundtrack)  The Woman In Red Soundtrack is the second soundtrack album released by Motown singing great Stevie Wonder on the Motown label. Also featuring Dionne Warwick, the LP was released in 1984 for the film of the same name. It featured Wonder's biggest hit and international number-one hit, I Just Called to Say I Love You, which won the Academy Award
Stevie Wonder  In Square Circle  In Square Circle is a 1985 album released by Grammy Award-winning American R&amp;B/soul singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder (his twentieth overall). The album features the hits Part-Time Lover, Go Home and Overjoyed (which was left off Wonder's 1979 album Journey through the Secret Life of Plants and re-recorded for this album). Go Home was performed during the Grammy awards ceremony in 1985, in the famous synthesizer jam with Thomas Dolby, Herbie Hancock and Howard Jones.
Stevie Wonder  Characters (album)  Characters is the Grammy-nominated 20th studio album by American singer-songwriter Stevie Wonder, released by Motown Records on November 6, 1987 in North America. Although highly anticipated like its precedessor, In Square Circle (1985) upon its release, the album received mixed reviews from critics, and debuted at number 17 on the U.S. Billboard 200, selling 500,000 in its first week of sales, becoming his first album since Music of My Mind (1972), not to reach the top ten of the charts, whilst it debuted at number one on the U.S. Billboard Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart for seven weeks, and spawned six singles including Get It, Skeletons and the ballad You Will Know that had attained Billboard R&amp;B chart success.
Stevie Wonder  Jungle Fever (soundtrack)  Jungle Fever is the 1991 soundtrack album by Stevie Wonder to Spike Lee's movie Jungle Fever. It was released on Motown. Wonder was asked by director Spike Lee to compose the film soundtrack and film score to the film, which depicted a black businessman falling for a white female associate. The hits included from the album include Jungle Fever, Gotta Have You, Fun Day and These Three Words.
Stevie Wonder  Conversation Peace  Conversation Peace is an album released by American musician Stevie Wonder, released on the Motown label in 1995. The album was Wonder's first full-length non-soundtrack studio album since 1987's Characters. This album yielded the hits For Your Love (a Grammy winner for Wonder for Best R&amp;B Male Vocal Performance) and the reggae-flavored Tomorrow Robins Will Sing.
Stevie Wonder  Natural Wonder  Natural Wonder is a live album by American musician Stevie Wonder, released in 1995 and recorded in Osaka, Japan. It is an edited version of a televised concert Wonder performed with the Tokyo Philharmonic.
Stevie Wonder  Stevie Wonder's Original Musiquarium I  Stevie Wonder's Original Musiquarium I is a compilation album by R&amp;B/soul musician Stevie Wonder, released as Tamla 6002 in 1982. It collects eleven Top 40 hit singles, and one album track
Stevie Wonder  I Don't Know Why  I Don't Know Why, (sometimes listed as I Don't Know Why I Love You), is a 1968 song by Stevie Wonder, from the album For Once in My Life. It also serves as B-Side for the 1969 hit My Cherie Amour. The song was recorded when Stevie was only 18 years old, and became a moderate hit single, together with You Met Your Match, another song from the album. The Rolling Stones recorded a version on June 30, 1969, released on the Metamorphosis album in 1975. They were mixing the song when they learned that Brian Jones had died. (July 3, 1969) The Jackson 5 cover the song (listed as Don't Know Why I Love You) on their 1970 album ABC. The Brand New Heavies cover the song on their 2006 album Get Used To It.
Stevie Wonder  Someday at Christmas  Someday at Christmas is an album by Stevie Wonder, released in 1967 under Motown Records.
Stevie Wonder  The Definitive Collection (Stevie Wonder album)  Stevie Wonder: The Definitive Collection is a compilation album, released in 2002, by American singer Stevie Wonder. It was released in the United Kingdom as a 38-track, two-disc compilation.
Stevie Wonder  Looking Back (Stevie Wonder album)  Looking Back, also known as Anthology, is a triple LP anthology by American soul musician Stevie Wonder, released in 1977 on Motown Records. Since its release in 12' Triple LP format, it has not been reissued and is considered a limited edition. The album chronicles 40 songs from Wonder's first Motown period, which precedes the classic period of his critically-acclaimed albums.
Stevie Wonder  At the Close of a Century  At the Close of a Century is a box set album of Stevie Wonder's greatest hits from the 1960s through the 1990s. The box set spans four CDs and the songs are placed in chronological order. It reached #100 on the Top R&amp;B/Hip-Hop Albums chart in 2000.
Stevie Wonder  The Complete Stevie Wonder  The Complete Stevie Wonder is a iTunes-only digital compilation featuring the work of Stevie Wonder. Released a week before the physical release of A Time To Love, the set comprises almost all of Wonder's officially released material, including single mixes, extended versions, remixes, and Workout Stevie Workout, a 1963 album which was shelved and replaced with With A Song In My Heart. The set also contains a digital booklet and three music videos: Overjoyed, Part-Time Lover and So What The Fuss.
Stevie Wonder  20th Century Masters – The Millennium Collection: The Best of Stevie Wonder  20th Century Masters - The Millennium Collection: The Best of Stevie Wonder is a compilation album, released in 2005, by American singer Stevie Wonder.
Stevie Wonder  Song Review: A Greatest Hits Collection  Song Review: A Greatest Hits Collection is a 1996 compilation album by Stevie Wonder.
Sting  Sacred Love  Sacred Love is the seventh studio album by Sting. The album was released on 30 September 2003. The album featured smoother, R&amp;B-style beats and experiments collaborating with hip-hop artist Mary J. Blige and sitar player Anoushka Shankar. Some songs like Inside and Dead Man's Rope were well received; and Sting had experimented with new sounds, in particular the more rock-influenced This War. Sting adapted the first quatrain of William Blake's Auguries of Innocence for the first four sung lines of Send Your Love. The music also bears huge relevance to Sting's autobiography Broken Music. Sting's collaboration with Blige, Whenever I Say Your Name, won the Grammy Award for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals at the 46th Grammy Awards in 2004.
Sting  ...Nothing Like the Sun  …Nothing Like the Sun is a 1987 album by Sting. The title comes from Shakespeare's Sonnet
Sting  Ten Summoner's Tales  Ten Summoner's Tales is the fourth solo studio album by the rock musician Sting. The title is a combined pun of his given name, Gordon Sumner, and a character in Geoffrey Chaucer's The Canterbury Tales, the summoner. Released in 1993, it explores themes of love and morality in a noticeably upbeat mood compared to his previous release, the introspective The Soul Cages
Sting  The Dream of the Blue Turtles  The Dream of the Blue Turtles is the first solo and debut studio album released by British pop singer-songwriter Sting, released in the United States on June 1, 1985. It includes ten tracks and was released in 1985, only a year after The Police had unofficially broken up. The album features some of Sting's strongest political songs, including Russians (about Cold War nuclear anxieties, which had peaked in the 1980s); Children's Crusade (comparing the destruction of the younger generation in World War I to the devastation brought about by heroin addiction in modern-day London); and We Work the Black Seam (about the recent U.K. Miners' Strike). It also includes Sting's first hit after The Police, If You Love Somebody Set Them Free; a jazzed-up reworking of The Police song Shadows in the Rain; and a song inspired by Anne Rice's book Interview with the Vampire, Moon over Bourbon Street. The movie Bring on the Night documents some of the recording work that produced this album, as well as the subsequent tour.
Sting  The Soul Cages  The Soul Cages is the third full length studio album released by Sting. Released in 1991, it became his second No. 1 album in the United Kingdom. It spawned four singles: All This Time, Mad About You, Why Should I Cry For You and The Soul Cages. The latter won the 1992 Grammy Award for Best Rock Song.
Sting  Bring on the Night  Bring on the Night is a 1986 live album by Sting recorded over the course of several live shows in 1985 and released in 1986. Bring on the Night is a song by The Police from their 1979 album Reggatta de Blanc. The tracks include Sting's early solo material from the studio album The Dream of the Blue Turtles, some material from his time in The Police, and some rarities and B-sides. The touring band features several prominent jazz musicians, including saxophonist Branford Marsalis, bassist Darryl Jones, pianist Kenny Kirkland and drummer Omar Hakim. Bring on the Night is also a 1985 documentary directed by Michael Apted covering the formative stages of Sting's solo career - released as DVD in 2005.
Sting  Nada como el sol  Nada como el sol is an EP released by Sting, containing five tracks from the album ... Nothing Like the Sun performed in Spanish and Portuguese.
Sting  Fields of Gold: The Best of Sting 1984–1994  Fields of Gold: The Best of Sting 1984-1994 is the first compilation issued by Sting. It features hit singles from his studio albums The Dream of the Blue Turtles, ... Nothing Like the Sun, The Soul Cages, and Ten Summoner's Tales. The album features two new songs, When We Dance and This Cowboy Song, which were both released as singles. An alternate version of We'll Be Together is also featured. While the liner notes do not mention this, the version of Why Should I Cry For You on this compilation differs from the one on The Soul Cages (A&amp;M 75021 6405 2). The 17 track international version contains 5 tracks not included on the 14 track U.S. release, but does not include Be Still My Beating Heart or Fortress Around Your Heart.
Sting  Mercury Falling  Mercury Falling is the fifth studio album released by Sting. The album was marked by its tight studio production and use of brass reminiscent of recordings made at FAME Studios in the 1960s. His release was considered by many fans to signal the beginning of Sting's transition from heavier jazz-inspired rock to the adult contemporary genre. The track Twenty Five to Midnight is not available on every release of the album. It is listed in the official Sting. com discography tracklist, but was excluded from the American and Canadian releases. It however was included in the CD-Maxi Single of You Still Touch Me, as the 4th track. The album begins and ends with the words mercury falling. Valparaiso was used during the closing credits of the 1996 film White Squall.
Sting  The Very Best of Sting & The Police  The Very Best of... Sting &amp; The Police is a compilation album issued by Sting, and released by A&amp;M Records. Reviews of the content are positive, but the compilation itself is generally regarded as superfluous as both a best of the Police and best of Sting album had previously been released. The album originally featured one new track, a remix of the 1978 song Roxanne by rap artist Sean Puffy Combs. The album was re-issued in 1998 by PolyGram International with 3 additional tracks: Seven Days, Fragile, and De Do Do Do, De Da Da Da. In 2002 it was again re-released by Universal with several track changes: the songs Let Your Soul Be Your Pilot, Russians, and Roxanne '97 (Puff Daddy Remix) are omitted, with the songs Brand New Day, Desert Rose, and So Lonely in their place.
Sting  Acoustic Live in Newcastle  Acoustic Live in Newcastle is the second live album released by Sting. It was recorded and released shortly after the studio album The Soul Cages, at the Buddle Arts Centre in Newcastle upon Tyne, England, on April 20, 1991. The album includes four tracks from The Soul Cages, as well as a cover of the Bill Withers song Ain't No Sunshine.
Sting  Demolition Man (album)  Demolition Man is an EP released by Sting on September 21, 1993 and November 1, 1993 in support of the Sylvester Stallone/Wesley Snipes film Demolition Man. It features a re-recording of the Police song Demolition Man that was not well-received by critics, as well as live recordings of several Sting compositions from Ten Summoner's Tales and other albums. The live recordings were recorded live at Villa Manin, Codroipo, Italy on 25 July 1993. The US and International/European EP release features the title track and five live recordings and sales for this release were listed on the US Albums Chart, as the UK release was a standard single which featured an exclusive single version of the title track as well as the album version and two live recordings. The UK release charted therefore on the UK Singles Chart, where it peaked at number 21.
Sting  The Living Sea: Soundtrack from the IMAX Film  The Living Sea: Soundtrack from the IMAX Film is the soundtrack album accompanying the IMAX film The Living Sea. The album was recorded by Sting and Steve Wood. It features several songs previously released by Sting, as well as new compositions by Sting and Wood. Its also features the guitar duo Strunz &amp; Farah, as session musicians.
Sting  Brand New Day (Sting album)  Brand New Day is Sting's sixth solo album. A Grammy Award winner, it peaked at number nine on the Billboard 200 and sold over 3,000,000 copies. The song Desert Rose prominently features popular Algerian Raï singer Cheb Mami. Originally, Sting's usual producer Hugh Padgham was to produce the record, but Sting was happy with the work done by Kipper, and Padgham was never called. Many sounds from Spectrasonics can be heard in Kipper's work on the record. The full version of The End of the Game was included on the single for Brand New Day and the DTS and DVD-Audio releases of the album. The music video for the title track is a parody of bleach commercials, and advertises Brand new 'Day Ultra' brand.
Sting  Songs from the Labyrinth  Songs from the Labyrinth is a 2006 album of recordings of the music of John Dowland by Sting and Bosnian lutenist Edin Karamazov
Sting  Lethal Weapon 3 (soundtrack)  Lethal Weapon 3 (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack), was released in June 9, 1992 on audio cassette and CD. The soundtrack was performed and composed by Michael Kamen, Eric Clapton, and David Sanborn. Its title songs, Its Probably Me, and Runaway Train were written and performed by Eric Clapton with the assistance of Sting and Elton John respectively.
Sting  ...All This Time  All This Time is a live album and concert film by Sting, recorded and filmed on September 11, 2001. It was recorded at Il Palagio in Italy, and features live versions of Sting's songs from his Police and solo career. The album and video get their name from the song of the same name from the album The Soul Cages.
Sting  Brimstone and Treacle (soundtrack)  Brimstone and Treacle is the soundtrack for the 1982 film adaption of the play Brimstone and Treacle. The film starred Sting in a leading role, and he composed the majority of the songs on the soundtrack. The song Spread a Little Happiness was released as a single, and Sting was awarded the 1984 Grammy Award for Best Rock Instrumental Performance for the title track.
Sting  You Will Be My Ain True Love  You Will Be My Ain True Love is a song written and performed by Sting and Alison Krauss from the 2003 film Cold Mountain. The song was nominated for an Academy Award, a Grammy Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song. This song is also included in Sting 2010 album Symphonicities.
Sting  If On a Winter's Night...  If On a Winter's Night... is a studio album from British musician Sting. It was released on October 27, 2009 in the United States and November 2, 2009 in the United Kingdom. The album was released in several formats: vinyl LP, a single-disc CD, a limited edition CD, an Amazon. com exclusive version, as well as various import editions (of note is the Japanese edition). The limited edition and Amazon exclusive both include bonus songs; the Japanese edition include them as well but adds The Coventry Carol.  The title of the album is based on the novel If on a winter's night a traveler by Italo Calvino.
Sting  Symphonicities  Symphonicities is the tenth studio album by English musician Sting, released on July 13, 2010. The album is a companion piece to the tour of the same name, in which Sting, performing with the Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra, reinterprets some of his songs as classical symphonic compositions. Symphonicities was produced by Rob Mathes and Sting, mixed by Elliot Scheiner and Claudius Mittendorfer, and mastered by Scott Hull. As of 27 August 2010, the album had sold over 267,000 copies worldwide.
Thalía  En éxtasis  En Éxtasis (In extasy) is the fourth studio album from the Mexican singer Thalía. This production became a huge success in Latin American and other Spanish-speaking countries, such as Spain. This is the first album Thalía recorded with the company EMI Music and the second which does not count with the participation of Alfredo Díaz Ordaz, who had produced Thalía's two first albums and who was his first love, until he died from Hepatitis, in 1992. En Éxtasis was produced by the Mexican producer Oscar López, except for the songs Piel Morena and Me Faltas Tú, which were produced by Emilio Estefan and Kike Santander. The executive producer of the album was Mario Ruiz. This is the first Thalía album that was released to all South America and Spain. Thalía's two previous albums, Mundo de Cristal and Love, had also been released in some Central-American countries and the United States. However, it was thanks to En Éxtasis that Thalía came to be known in all the American Continent, from Argentina—where she has conquered many fans—to Canada. Today, many people remember her for the song Piel Morena, which was a huge success when released and is still played and danced worldwide. Apart from the 1995 Latin American hit Piel Morena, En Éxtasis features other hits such as Gracias a Dios (Thanks to God), Amándote (Loving you), Juana and Quiero Hacerte el Amor (I want to make love to you). Besides, the album includes several cover versions. One of them is the song Gracias a Dios. Although it had originally been interpreted by the Mexican singer Juan Gabriel, this song actually reached universality thanks to Thalía's performance. At the same time, it contributed to making her the extremely famous celebrity she currently is. In Argentina, for instance, Gracias a Dios was used as the soundtrack of one of Thalía's most viewed soap-operas, María la del Barrio (Mary from the block), instead of the song with which it was originally released in México (and which also became a great hit in that country). The second cover included in the album is the song Me Erotizas(You turn me on), originally performed by the French singer Herbert Léonard, under the name Sur des musiques érotiques (About erotic musics). This song is included in his 1987 album Laissez-nous rêver (Let us dream) and was very popular in France at the end of the 80's. The French lyric of it was written by two very well-known French song-writers, Vline Buggy and Julien Lepers. However, the Spanish version of the lyric was written by Thalía, who had some expertise in this field since she had already been the author of other lyrics included in previous albums, such as the song Sangre (Blood), which was one of the first singles of the album Love and which Thalía dedicated to the memory of her boyfriend, Alfredo Díaz Ordaz, who had just died. Thalía also wrote the lyric of the song Lágrimas (Tears), included in En Éxtasis, presumably inspired by the death of her beloved companion. The third and fourth covers of the album are two songs which were originally composed and performed by two Argentinean singers: one of them is Fantasía (Fantasy), by Gabriela Anders; the other is Te Quiero Tanto (I love you so much), by Eddie Sierra. The latter song is part of Sierra´s 1990 album Está todo bien (Everything is alright). The lyric of the song had to undergo some changes, not only because it was a woman who was performing it this time, but also because its author had used some expressions which are typical of the Argentinean Spanish (such as vos, a way of addressing someone, though this word is also used in some Central-American countries, such as Honduras), and referred expressly to Buenos Aires . The number of songs included in En Éxtasis was not the same in all the countries where it was released. This is due to the fact that, at the same time the album was being released, Thalía's most successful soap-opera, María, la del Barrio (Mary from the Block
Thalía  El Sexto Sentido  El Sexto Sentido is the tenth studio album (and thirteenth album) by the Mexican pop singer Thalía. It was released by EMI Music on July 19, 2005. The most successful singles of the album are Amar sin ser amada, Un alma sentenciada and Seduccion. A reloaded version was later released. It was number one in some parts of Asia.
Thalía  Greatest Hits (Thalía album)  Thalía | Greatest Hits is the first compilation album by Mexican pop star Thalía. Released on February 10, 2004, the album features 14 singles from her first nine albums, plus two previously released songs Acción y Reacción &amp; Cuando Tu Me Tocas. In April and May 2004, Thalía toured the United States and Mexico on her High Voltage Tour. This marked the first time Thalía toured the US.
Thalía  Thalía's Hits Remixed  Thalía's Hits Remixed is a remix album by Latin pop singer Thalía released on February 25, 2003 in North America. It contains remixes of many of her hits, such as Amor a la Mexicana, Piel Morena, No Me Enseñaste and Tú y Yo.  The album contains the English version of Arrasando, called It's My Party that was released only on CD single back in 2001. And includes the previously unreleased medley that Thalía recorded especially for her the 2001 Latin Grammy Awards performance. That later was cancelled, due the 9/11 attack.
Thalía  Thalía (2002 album)  Thalia is the ninth studio album by Mexican singer Thalía, released on May 21, 2002, by EMI Latin. The lead single was Tú y Yo
Thalía  Nandito Ako  Nandito Ako (Tagalog of I Am Here) was the fifth album released by Thalía and her first compilation album. The original song was sung by Ogie Alcasid. It was exclusively released in the Philippines, where she became a major superstar because of her telenovela Marimar. Nandito Ako went multi-diamond in Philippines for sales exceeding 1 million copies. The album, composed of ten tracks, includes her first single Nandito Ako which was recorded after her major concert in the Philippines. It also features the Tagalog version of María la del Barrio, El Venao and Juana and the English versions of Quiero Hacerte El Amor and Gracias A Dios. She also made her own versions of the songs Tell Me and Hey, It's Me. This is an album that was sung half in English and half in Tagalog (language spoken in the Philippines. ) Ricky R. Ilacad is its executive producer. Due to Thalia's success in the Philippines, the album was released in 1997 in this country, and other Asian countries, under the label OctoArts EMI. This is the first time Thalia sang in English and Tagalog. It was certified multi-platinum only a week after it was released. After ten years, it was re-released in the Philippines with the inclusion of one of her signature songs Marimar.
Thalía  Love (Thalía album)  Love is the third studio album by Mexican singer Thalía, released in 1992, under the previously owned Televisa record label, Melody/Fonovisa, which now belongs to Univision Music Group. This album was released in México, some Central-American countries, the United States (with an alternate cover), Spain, Greece and Turkey. In México, two different versions of 'Love' were released. The first one included only 12 songs. However, as Thalía's soap-opera María Mercedes was turning a big hit, a second version of the album was issued, featuring the Telenovela soundtrack as a bonus track. The album was recorded in Spain and was produced by the Spanish producer Luis Carlos Esteban. Photography was in charge of the well-known photographer Adolfo Pérez Butron. It includes four covers, A la Orilla del Mar (At the Seaside), La Vie en Rose (Life in Pink), Cien Años (A Hundred Years) and Nunca Sabrás (You'll Never Know). El bronceador samples Michael Jackson's song Bad. The album has sold over 1.5 million copies worldwide.
Thalía  Arrasando  Arrasando was the seventh studio album by Mexican Latin pop singer Thalía. In many interviews during the album launch, Thalía said that this album was different than her previous ones, because it shows her turn to the Dance/Techno element, describing it as a rhythm-fusion between many types of music. In addition, it includes two covers: Gloria Estefan's Lucky Girl and the Brazilian hit Pata Pata. The album received excellent reviews around the world, increasing her fame as an international popstar. It was released on April 25, 2000 in North America. It became a smash hit album for Thalía. It received two nominations at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2001 for Female Pop Vocal Album and Best Engineered Album, winning the latter one. Arrasando was a worldwide phenomena and gave her a lot of certifications.
Thalía  Amor a la Mexicana  Amor a la Mexicana is the fifth studio album by Mexican superstar Thalía. The album has become Thalía's best to date, especially for the album's first single Amor a la Mexicana, which proved the evolution of Thalía as a musician. The album had major success in Latin America, USA, Spain, France, Philippines and other European countries. While it is assumed the song Echa Pa'Lante was included in the soundtrack of 1998 movie Dance with Me, starring Vanessa L. Williams and Puerto Rican pop star Chayanne, the version in the movie is completely different from the original song, even changing its message. The original song, in this album, was a political protest song against the ruling PRI in the 1997 Mexican parliamentary elections. Es Tu Amor was released as the promotional single of the film Ever After in Latin America.
Thalía  Con Banda Grandes Exitos  Thalía Con Banda: Grandes Éxitos is a 2001 compilation album by Thalía. The album was released in August 2001 while successful singles off her Arrasando album were still receiving heavy airplay, like Arrasando, Reencarnacion and It's My Party.  The album includes ten of Thalía's greatest hits in banda style, plus two new banda tracks La Revancha and Cuco Peña and two bonus remixes of Piel Morena and Amor a la Mexicana.  The only video filmed from this album was for the mix of Amor a la Mexicana but the single did not have great success. The album was nominated for a Latin Grammy for Best Banda Album at the 3rd Annual Latin Grammy Awards in 2002.
Thalía  Thalía (1990 album)  Thalía was the eponymous debut solo album by Mexican pop star Thalía. The album was produced by Alfredo Diaz Ordaz and was released in Mexico under the Fonovisa label in 1990. The album consisted of 80's rock, synth, pop, and ballads. The singles Un Pacto Entre Los 2 and Saliva were highly controversial due to their suggestive themes, but were nonetheless highly successful, and are now considered Thalía classics along with Amarillo Azul and Pienso En Ti. The album has sold 800,000 copies to date (only in Mexico).
Thalía  Mundo de Cristal  Mundo de Cristal was Thalía's second studio album, produced by Alfredo Diaz Ordaz and released in Mexico on the Fonovisa label in 1991. The album has sold 900,000 copies (only in Mexico).
Thalía  Lunada  Lunada is the eleventh studio album by Mexican pop singer Thalía. It was released through EMI Music on June 24, 2008 worldwide. Lunada is Thalía's first album since the release of the successful El Sexto Sentido in 2005 and since the birth of her daughter Sabrina. It was produced by the hit-maker Emilio Estefan and was supposed to be the soundtrack of the summer. The album received generally favorable reviews but didn't have the expected sales as it did not receive any promotion by Thalía's record company, EMI. For this reason she ended her contract with EMI after 14 years of international success. The album is considered to be the least successful in Thalía's career.. Two singles were released by this album. The first one is Ten Paciencia, not her best as her previous number one-singles. The second one is Será Porque Te Amo. Thalía would also release Sangre Caliente and Aventurero as a single, but it was canceled due to the Lyme disease (that kept her away from her work).
Thalía  El comienzo de la Historia  El comienzo de la Historia is a Greatest Hits compilation by Mexican pop star Thalía. It comprises ten tracks taken from her first two albums, both of which are now out of print.
Thalía  Primera fila (Thalía album)  Primera fila is the first Live CD/DVD album by the Mexican singer-songwriter Thalía. This album was recorded in Miami, Florida at the BankUnited Center on July 29 and 30, 2009, with a selected audience to attend the concert. Primera Fila is the first Thalia's project under the label of Sony Music. The album was released on December 1, 2009 in United States and Latin America, while in Europe and Asia it was released in April 2010. It includes duets with five-time Latin Grammy Award-winning Mexican singer and songwriter Joan Sebastian and the Puerto Rican musician Pedro Capó. It also contains new songs and a medley of 4 of her hit songs.
Thomas Anders  Whispers (album)  Whispers is the title of the second studio album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders, released in 1991. The album was produced by Paul Muggleton &amp; Mike Paxman and mixed by Stephen W Tayler. Some tracks for the album were provided by songwriters of Roxette and Jennifer Rush. It features a remake of The Stylistics' classics Can't Give You Anything (But My Love). Backing vocals were provided by Judie Tzuke and Don Snow. The Sweet Hello, The Sad Goodbye, Can't Give You Anything (But My Love) and True Love were released as singles.
Thomas Anders  Different (album)  Different is debut solo-album released in 1989 by Thomas Anders, who first attained success as the lead vocalist for Modern Talking in the mid-'80s. The album was recorded in London at Alan Parsons' studio and was produced by Gus Dudgeon &amp; Alan Tarney. It features a cover of Chris Rea's Fool (If You Think It's Over). It's an extravagant album, featuring a legion of songwriters and session musicians. The album boasted the hit Love Of My Own and became a big success for Anders. Other singles were Soldier and One Thing. The album was re-released twice by EastWest Records in 1991 and 1998.
Thomas Anders  Down on Sunset  Down on Sunset is the title of the third studio album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. It was released in 1992, and was produced by Christian De Walden. Several songs were co-written by Thomas Anders aka Chris Copperfield. The same year album was re-released in Japan. How Deep Is Your Love and Standing Alone were released as singles. My One And Only was covered in Spanish by Kiara in 1995. In 1998 this album was re-released as How Deep Is Your Love by Spectrum and Universal.
Thomas Anders  When Will I See You Again (album)  When Will I See You Again is the title of the fourth studio album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. It was released in 1993, and was produced by Christian De Walden. It features a remake of The Three Degrees' classics When Will I See You Again. I'll Love You Forever, The Love In Me and When Will I See You Again were released as singles. Marathon Of Life was written for the Swedish movie Stockholm Marathon, where Anders played a small part.
Thomas Anders  Barcos de Cristal  Barcos de Cristal is the title of the fifth studio album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. It is his first solo album to be sung in Spanish. It was released in 1994 in the USA for Latin America, and was produced by Christian De Walden. Some tracks were co-written by Thomas Anders aka Chris Copperfield. A title track was used for the Argentine TV-series and reached No.1 in Argentina. Tu Chica Es Mi Chica was recorded as a duet with Glenn Medeiros. Una Mañana De Sol is a cover in Spanish on When Will I See You Again by The Three Degrees. Luna De Plata was covered by Kiara in 1995.
Thomas Anders  Souled  Souled is the title of the sixth studio album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. It was released in 1995, and was produced by Peter Wolf. The album featured covers of The Beatles' Michelle, Stephanie Mills' Never Knew Love Like This Before and a duet with The Pointer Sisters on Feel for the Physical. Road To Higher Love, A Little Bit Of Lovin' and Never Knew Love Like This Before were released as singles.
Thomas Anders  Live Concert (album)  Live Concert is the title of the seventh album by singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. It is his first solo album to be recorded live. The album was released in 1997 with a jazz band and features such evergreens as Cole Porter's Night And Day, Bobby Darin's Beyond The Sea, Barry Manilow's When October Goes and other classics.
Thomas Anders  This Time (Thomas Anders album)  This Time is the title of the first studio album after six years of hiatus by German singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders, released in 2004. It is Anders' 19-th album and his eighth as a solo artist.
Thomas Anders  Songs Forever  Songs Forever is the title of the 2006 studio album by German singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders, consisting mainly of popular swing covers. In this album Thomas Anders opens new sides of the solo career.
Thomas Anders  Strong (Thomas Anders album)  Strong is the title of the 2010 studio album by German singer-songwriter &amp; producer Thomas Anders. On 27 January 2010, Thomas Anders said: The album is nearly ready and will appear first in Russia where I still have a great amount of fans, and in Germany the release is planned for summer. Strong reached platinum status in Russia.
Tina Turner  Private Dancer  Private Dancer is the fifth solo album by Tina Turner, released on Capitol Records in 1984, which became her breakthrough solo album. Turner's success with the album came after several challenging years of going solo after a public divorce from husband and performing partner Ike Turner. It is her best-selling album both in the U.S. and internationally and propelled her back to superstardom during the year of its release.
Tina Turner  What's Love Got to Do with It (album)  What's Love Got to Do With It is the eighth solo album by Tina Turner, released on EMI/Parlophone in 1993. It is the soundtrack album for the Tina Turner biographical film What's Love Got to Do with It, released by Touchstone Pictures the same year. Tina Turner re-recorded many of her songs from the Ike and Tina Turner period for this album including their first hit single A Fool In Love. The album also includes Turner's version of The Trammps' disco classic Disco Inferno, a song she had often performed live in concert in the late seventies but never previously recorded in studio. Two tracks from her 1984 breakthrough solo album Private Dancer
Tina Turner  All the Best (Tina Turner album)  All The Best is a greatest hits album by Tina Turner, released in November 2004. In the U.S. an abridged single disc version titled All The Best: The Hits was released in October 2005. The track list concentrates on Turner's solo hits, but also features a few highlights from her partnership with Ike Turner. It also contains three new recordings (Open Arms, Complicated Disaster and Something Special) and some rarer tracks including duets and her song from the Brother Bear soundtrack
Tina Turner  Break Every Rule  Break Every Rule is the sixth solo album by Tina Turner, released on Capitol Records in 1986. The album's predecessor, Private Dancer
Tina Turner  Foreign Affair  Foreign Affair is the seventh solo album by Tina Turner, released on Capitol Records in 1989. Although the album did not perform as well as Private Dancer and Break Every Rule in the U.S. , it was a worldwide hit, selling over 6 million copies. In Europe, six of the album's tracks became hit singles; The Best
Tina Turner  Twenty Four Seven (album)  Twenty Four Seven is the tenth solo album by Tina Turner, released on Parlophone/Virgin in 1999.
Tina Turner  Simply the Best (album)  Simply the Best is the name of Tina Turner's 1991 compilation album of her most popular hits since her comeback in the early-mid 1980s. It also included three new songs; Love Thing
Tina Turner  Wildest Dreams  Wildest Dreams is the ninth solo album by Tina Turner, released on Parlophone/Virgin in 1996, which went double platinum in the UK, France, Germany, and on the European Charts. The song GoldenEye, recorded and released in 1995, was the theme of the James Bond film of the same name. It was written by Bono and The Edge of the Irish band U2. The song Confidential was written and co-produced for Turner by the British group the Pet Shop Boys. The band's singer and lyricist, Neil Tennant, sings backing vocals on the track. The original Pet Shop Boys demo (with Tennant on vocals) can be found on the 2001 2-disc rerelease of their album Very. Unfinished Sympathy is a cover of the Massive Attack song. The track All Kinds of People was written by Sheryl Crow and features the singer on backing vocals. Tina Turner also released a duet with Barry White called In Your Wildest Dreams
Tina Turner  Tina Live in Europe  Tina Live in Europe is a 1988 live album by Tina Turner. This album is compiled of live performances made between the years 1985 and 1987, the majority of which are from Turner's Break Every Rule Tour but also from the 1985 Private Dancer Tour, as well as the 1986 Tina Turner: Break Every Rule HBO special recorded in London at the Camden Palace
Tina Turner  Don't Turn Around  Don't Turn Around is a popular song written by Diane Warren and Albert Hammond. It was originally recorded by Tina Turner as the B-side to the single Typical Male in 1986. Warren is said to have been disappointed that Turner's record company treated the song as a B-side and never included it on one of her albums. However it has since been included on the rarities disc of the 1994 compilation The Collected Recordings – Sixties to Nineties. It has been covered by a number of artists. Kim Goody released a single version in 1987. Despite being featured in several episodes of her Saturday morning show No. 73, the song failed to get into the top 100 in the UK chart. Bonnie Tyler released her version on her 1988 album Notes from America, while soul singer Luther Ingram had a U.S.
Tina Turner  One Last Time Live in Concert  One Last Time Live in Concert is a home video documenting one of singer Tina Turner's final Wembley Stadium concert stops on her Twenty Four Seven Tour. The DVD was released nationally in 2001, a year after the tour, which was the highest-grossing tour of 2000, ended. The DVD was certified platinum by the RIAA and in the UK.
Tina Turner  All the Best – The Live Collection  All The Best - The Live Collection is a DVD by Tina Turner. The songs on disc one are live from Turner's various tours since 1985 to 2000 while disc two contains extras including music videos and an interview. The DVD received gold status by the RIAA in the United States.
Tina Turner  I Might Have Been Queen  I Might Have Been Queen is a song written for Tina Turner as the first track on her highly successful Private Dancer album, and later included on her What's Love Got to Do With It soundtrack album. The song was written by Jeanette Obstoj, Rupert Hine and Jamie West-Oram for the Private Dancer album. The story behind the song is that Turner believes she was an Egyptian queen in a previous life. Turner was supposedly Hatshepsut, a Pharaoh who took the throne from her brother believing that he would ruin his country. By taking the throne and mistreating her brother, she prevented him from following his path and gathered karma. Turner believes that in this life she encountered him again in the form of Ike Turner. It is said that Turner believes her past is now all behind her and she can now truly be the great queen or pharaoh she already was. Following a discussion with Rupert Hine, Jeannette Obstoj spoke with Tina about her life starting with the cotton fields in Nutbush, Tennessee right through to her current situation. They also discussed Tina's interest in Egypt and her belief in previous lives. Obstoj is credited as co-writer. Turner is said to have been very emotional upon hearing the story the lyrics projected. I Might Have Been Queen was performed on the 1984 Private Dancer Tour and has not been included in any other tour set since.
Tina Turner  Rough (album)  Rough is Tina Turner's third solo album, released in September 1978 on the EMI Music label in the UK, Ariola Records in West Germany and United Artists in the U.S. It was her first solo album after her 1976 split with husband Ike Turner. Her first two solo albums, Tina Turns the Country On (1974) and Acid Queen (1975), were recorded while she was still married to Ike Turner and also a member of the Ike and Tina Turner Revue. Rough would be the first album where there was no association with Ike Turner. The divorce proceedings between the Turners finally ended in 1978, the same year Rough was released, leaving Tina penniless - but with the legal right to still use her stage name Tina Turner. The album was made up of rock songs, instead of the soul, bluesy, and R&amp;B music that she typically had performed with the Revue. But the album was recorded at the height of the disco era and so shows influences from that genre. The opening track, Fruits of the Night, for example, was co-written by Giorgio Moroder's longtime collaborator Pete Bellotte. Turner also included a cover of Bob Seger's Fire Down Below, which was later covered again by Bette Midler for the 1979 movie The Rose. The album also includes Turner's first cover version of Elton John's The Bitch Is Back, which she re-recorded in 1991 for the tribute album Two Rooms: Celebrating the Songs of Elton John &amp; Bernie Taupin. Rough and its four singles, Viva La Money, Root Toot, Undisputable Rock &amp; Roller, Sometimes When We Touch - a cover of Dan Hill's ballad - and Night Time Is the Right Time, all met with limited commercial success on their release. Just like the preceding Acid Queen and the follow-up Love Explosion, the album was a clear indication of the direction that Turner wanted to take her career; combining rock music with elements of pop and R&amp;B. The album was re-issued on CD by EMI Music in the early 1990s but is currently out of print.
Tina Turner  Love Explosion (album)  Love Explosion is Tina Turner's fourth solo album, released in March 1979 on the EMI Music label in the UK, Ariola Records in West Germany and United Artists in the U.S. It was her second solo album to be released after she left husband Ike Turner and the Ike &amp; Tina Turner Revue. Love Explosion was recorded in Europe and produced by one of the leading characters in French disco at the time, Alec R. Costandinos, who had worked with bands like Love And Kisses and Cerrone and also appeared on the soundtrack to the 1978 movie Thank God It's Friday. Unfortunately Love Explosion which was even more influenced by funk and disco than 1978's Rough was released in the year of the so called anti-disco backlash which meant that both the album and its three single releases, Love Explosion and Music Keeps Me Dancin' - both disco-oriented - and a mid-tempo cover version of The O'Jays' 1972 soul classic Back Stabbers, were largely overlooked by the audiences both in Europe and the States. The album also includes two soulful ballads, I See Home and Just A Little Lovin', the latter originally recorded by Dusty Springfield on her 1969 album Dusty in Memphis. Love Explosion was to be Turner's last studio album until her triumphant return to the music scene with the multiplatinum selling Private Dancer some five years later. Love Explosion just like the preceding Rough was re-issued on CD by EMI Music in the early 1990's but is currently out of print.
Tina Turner  Acid Queen (album)  Acid Queen is Tina Turner's second solo album, released in 1975 on the EMI Music label in the UK, and United Artists in the U.S. As it turned out, it was her last solo album to be released before she left husband Ike Turner and the Ike &amp; Tina Turner Revue. Acid Queen takes its title from Tina Turner's role in Ken Russell's film version of The Who's classic rock opera Tommy, which had also featured Elton John, Eric Clapton, Jack Nicholson, Ann-Margret, and starred Roger Daltrey. Side A of the original vinyl album consists of rock covers. Besides a re-recorded version of the title track, it also contained the Rolling Stones' Under My Thumb and Let's Spend the Night Together, The Who's I Can See For Miles and Led Zeppelin's Whole Lotta Love. Side B was written and produced mainly by Ike Turner and Tina Turner and includes what was to be the very last hit single for Ike &amp; Tina Turner, the disco-influenced Baby Get It On (R&amp;B #31, US #88). Other single releases include Whole Lotta Love (#61 R&amp;B) and Acid Queen, released in early 1976. The Acid Queen album has been re-issued on both vinyl and CD with a series of different cover pictures by both EMI Music and its Dutch midprice subsidiary Disky Communications. The first release of the album on CD included three bonus tracks taken from the 1969 Ike &amp; Tina Turner albums The Hunter and Outta Season.
Tina Turner  Tina Turns the Country On!  Tina Turns the Country On! is the debut solo album by Tina Turner, released in 1974 on the United Artists label in the U.S. The album was recorded while Turner still was a member of the Ike &amp; Tina Turner Revue. The album sees Turner - covering songs previously recorded by among others Kris Kristofferson, Bob Dylan, Olivia Newton-John, James Taylor and Dolly Parton. While it garnered her with a Grammy Nomination for Best R&amp;B Vocal Performance, Female in 1974 it was only a moderate commercial success. Her second solo album Acid Queen released the following year saw Turner taking her first steps towards a more rock-oriented repertoire. Tina Turns the Country On! remains unreleased on CD. The album should not be confused with budget CD compilations such as Tina Turner Sings Country, Soul Deep, Country My Way, Good Hearted Woman, Country In My Soul, Stand By Your Man, Country Classics, You Ain't Woman Enough To Take My Man, The Country Side of Tina Turner etc. which feature material from the archives of Bolic Sound Studios.
Tina Turner  Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome (soundtrack)  Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack album to the movie of the same name, starring Mel Gibson and Tina Turner. The album was originally released in 1985 on the Capitol Records label and reissued numerous times on different labels.
Tina Turner  The Collected Recordings – Sixties to Nineties  The Collected Recordings – Sixties to Nineties is a 16 bit digitally remastered three disc compilation album by American rock singer Tina Turner. The 48 track compilation was released in the United States on 15 November 1994 by Capitol Records. The set collects recordings from Turner's - at the time - thirty year long career, starting with her 1960 debut single with Ike &amp; Tina Turner, A Fool In Love, and concluding with 1993's I Don't Wanna Fight from the soundtrack to the biographical movie What's Love Got to Do with It. Disc one focuses on Turner's career with the Ike &amp; Tina Turner Revue featuring a selection of their hit singles and best-known cover versions such as It's Gonna Work Out Fine, I Idolize You, River Deep - Mountain High, Bold Soul Sister, Nutbush City Limits, Otis Redding's I've Been Loving You Too Long, Sly &amp; the Family Stone's I Want to Take You Higher, The Beatles' Come Together, Creedence Clearwater Revival's Proud Mary and The Rolling Stones Honky Tonk Women. Disc two opens with Turner's first solo hit single Acid Queen from the film version of The Who's rockopera Tommy followed by one of the last recordings she made with her former husband, her cover version of Led Zeppelin's Whole Lotta Love taken from the Acid Queen album in 1975. The disc continues with two of the songs Turner recorded with the B.E.F. (British Electric Foundation) in the early eighties that became the starting point of her comeback, Ball of Confusion and A Change Is Gonna Come - both tracks however remixes dating from 1991, live tracks like Prince's Let's Pretend We're Married, Robert Palmer's Addicted to Love and ZZ Top's Legs, her subsequent hit duets with Bryan Adams, Eric Clapton and Rod Stewart, single B-sides such as When I Was Young and Don't Turn Around coupled with a few rarities like Johnny And Mary from the 1982 soundtrack Summer Lovers and the 1983 demo recording Games. Disc three comprises fifteen of Turner's greatest hits following her comeback with the 1984 Private Dancer album, among them Let's Stay Together, What's Love Got To Do With It, Typical Male, What You Get Is What You See The Best and Steamy Windows. Notable omissions from the Collected Recordings track list are amongst others tracks from Turner's two first proper solo albums Rough (1978) and Love Explosion (1979), both recorded for the Capitol Records/EMI label.
Tina Turner  Tina!: Her Greatest Hits  Tina!: Her Greatest Hits (known simply as Tina!) is a compilation album from American rock singer Tina Turner. The album was released September 30, 2008 by Capitol Records in North America and October 17, 2008 in Germany (the album was released as an import in other regions). Released just in time for her 2008 world tour, the 18 track disc features Turner's biggest hits along with live recordings. It also includes two new songs, I'm Ready and It Would Be a Crime. . The digital release of the album also features alternative versions to River Deep - Mountain High and Acid Queen. The album was later expanded to a three-disc set, released in Europe to coincide with the European leg of her tour. The Platinum Collection was released on February 23, 2009. The album features almost every single released by Turner as a solo artist, including duets, live versions and re-recordings, as well as selected songs from her days with her former husband, Ike Turner.
Tina Turner  Tina Live  Tina Live is a live album/home video by Tina Turner released on September 28, 2009 in Europe and October 13, 2009 in the United States. The tracks were recorded from Turner's hugely successful 50th Anniverary Tour on March 21, 2009 live from the Gelredome in Arnhem, Netherlands.
Tom Jones  Reload (album)  Reload is the title of an album, released in 1999 by Welsh singer Tom Jones. After a lengthy career, and a notable absence from the music charts for several years, Jones resurrected his career with this album of 15 cover versions and 2 original tracks (Sexbomb, Looking Out My Window) recorded as duets with current artists. To ensure that the finished product retained the sound of these artists, he also recorded the tracks in the same studios these artists used, and also used their record producers. The album became the highest seller of Jones' career, reaching number one on the British charts in 1999 and again in 2000. The biggest single from the album was the collaboration with Mousse T, Sexbomb, which reached number three on the UK Singles Chart, and was later used in an episode of The Simpsons (a show Jones had guest starred on in 1992). The album has sold more than six million copies worldwide. The album was not released immediately in the U.S. with Jones's U.S. record company stating that many of the artists were not known outside of the UK. Jones announced plans to record additional tracks with well known U.S. artists to prepare the album for U.S. release. This did not occur.
Tom Jones  John Farnham & Tom Jones – Together in Concert  In 2005, John Farnham and Tom Jones performed together for ten concerts in the Australian cities of Perth, Sydney, Brisbane, and Melbourne. Farnham then left the stage to let Tom perform a few solos before returning with 1972's One and raging through hits like Pressure Down, That's Freedom, Heart's On Fire, Playing To Win, Every Time You Cry, Man Of The Hour, Age Of Reason and Burn For You. The pair performed five duets: Sam and Dave's Hold On I'm Coming, Otis Redding's Try A Little Tenderness, Ray Charles' What'd I Say, Arthur Conley's Sweet Soul Music and AC/DC's anthem, Long Way To The Top. On 31 May 2005, a CD album and DVD video were released from a show at the Rod Laver Arena at Melbourne Park. The DVD release debuted at number 1 on the Australian charts, with the album reaching number 3, and being awarded as 3x platinum.
Tom Jones  Along Came Jones (album)  Along Came Jones is the 1965 debut album recorded by Tom Jones and included his massive hit single It's Not Unusual. The album reached No 11. Some of the songs were covers and some were written especially for Jones like the Gordon Mills-penned The Rose.
Tom Jones  It's Not Unusual (Tom Jones album)  It's Not Unusual is a 1965 album by Tom Jones released in the United States. It is similar to Jones' Along Came Jones release, both containing It's Not Unusual.
Tom Jones  Mr. Jones (album)  Mr. Jones is a studio album by Welsh musician Tom Jones. It was released in 2002 by V2 Records.
Tom Jones  Praise & Blame  Praise &amp; Blame is the 39th studio album by Welsh musician Tom Jones, released 26 July 2010. The album was Jones’ first release with Island Records and was recorded in 2010 at the Real World Studios in England. Produced by Ethan Johns, Praise &amp; Blame was made up of largely little known devotional and gospel covers, marking a departure from the pop-orientated style that had dominated Jones' recent recordings.
Ua  11 (Ua album)  11 is the first studio album by Japanese singer-songwriter Ua, released on October 23, 1996. The album was re-issued on September 22, 2005.
Ua  Petit (EP)  Petit is an EP by Japanese singer-songwriter Ua, released on October 21, 1995. Like its lead single, Petit also failed to chart on the Oricon charts. The EP was re-issued on September 22, 2005.
Vanessa Amorosi  Rise Up (Vanessa Amorosi song)  Rise Up is a pop song written by Vanessa Amorosi, Axel Breitung, Mark Holden and S. Monopoly, originally recorded by Vanessa Amorosi for her second album Turn to Me (2001).
Vanessa Amorosi  Somewhere in the Real World  Somewhere in the Real World is the Gold album by Vanessa Amorosi, released in Australia on 24 May 2008. It was recorded in Los Angeles in 2007, after numerous delays since 2006. Kiss Your Mama! was released as the first single from the album on 8 September 2007. It reached the top twenty of the ARIA Singles Chart. Perfect reached Platinum sales and was the most played Australian song on Australian radio for 2008. Perfect was used in the Seven Network's promotion for Bionic Woman, and was released as the second single on 26 April 2008. Start It has been chosen by the Australian Football League (AFL) to be their theme song in 2008. Amorosi's tastes became a bit heavier and more soulful, finding inspiration from 60's rock legends such as Janis Joplin and Jimi Hendrix. As an entertainer and as a person, I am always searching for what is real, Vanessa Amorosi explains why her album is titled Somewhere in the Real World. Amorosi says: I think this album represents me finally. When I listen to Absolutely Everybody and Shine now, I sound like a baby, because I was a baby. Somewhere in the Real World represents who I am now and I believe it’s still recognisable. You can’t change your soul, but I have matured and have had life experiences that brought out these songs. I took a long time making sure that every song on the album meant something to me. I wanted it to be one of those albums you buy, where you listen to it from the beginning to the end and it takes you on a journey. Somewhere in the Real World is a journal of what I’ve been doing.  On 2 June 2008, the album debuted at #4 on the ARIA Albums Chart, becoming Amorosi's highest charting album since her debut, The Power. The Simple Things (Something Emotional) was released as the album's third single in September 2008.
Vanessa Amorosi  The Best of Vanessa Amorosi  The Best of Vanessa Amorosi is a CD/DVD set released by Vanessa Amorosi in 2006 through the independent arm of Sony BMG Australia Rajon Entertainment.
Vanessa Amorosi  Turn to Me  Turn to Me is a CD album released by Vanessa Amorosi in 2001. Contains bonus multi-media components Have A Look (German Video), Shine (UK Video) and a hidden video of The Power (Oz Outtakes) which is uncredited on the insert. Plus photo gallery &amp; screen saver. Turn to Me was not an original album but a compilation of tracks that were unreleased in Australia along with remixes of popular songs from The Power. Turn to Me nevertheless climbed to #21 on the Australian charts after its release.
Vanessa Amorosi  Change (Vanessa Amorosi album)  Change is a copy protected CD album released in Germany by Vanessa Amorosi in 2002. Highest charts position on the German Top100 was at #64. After one week the album disappeared from the German charts. The CD was supposed to be released in Australia too, but it was never released there because of an unknown reason.
Vanessa Amorosi  The Power (Vanessa Amorosi album)  The Power is Vanessa Amorosi's debut album in which was very popular in Australia. The international version contained different album art and different track listing to the Australian version. The Power was the first time an Australian female reached number one on the national album chart with her first album. It remained for 62 weeks in the ARIA Top 50 Albums Chart after its release.
Vanessa Amorosi  Hazardous (album)  Hazardous is the fourth studio album by Vanessa Amorosi, released in Australia on 6 November 2009. It was recorded in Los Angeles and Sweden. On 16 November 2009 the album debuted at #7 on the ARIA Albums Chart. She had shelved another record she had written to follow up Somewhere in the Real World. The record wasn't good enough – she would start again. So on her way home from songwriting sessions, she stopped off in Sweden at the suggestion of her publishers. The connection between her and the MachoPsycho team was instant. It was literally pouring out of us. It's such a crazy thing when you have the right magic and chemistry going on – the songs tend to write themselves and really quickly, Amorosi says. This album is so raw and edgy and out-there... it might scare people who’ve bought my albums in the past, she said. The whole album is all the stuff I’ve never wanted to talk about, and I’ve only now had the courage to put it out there. I had a lot to say with this album, that’s why it came so quickly. I think a lot of people thought I’d take my time again, which I was nervous about. We were going to head to Europe with the last album, but then it would’ve been another two years, and people would’ve thought ‘I’m tired of buying her records, she pisses off after each one’.
Vanessa Paradis  Divinidylle  Divinidylle is a 2007 album by French singer Vanessa Paradis. It was recorded between November 2005 through June 2007. Critical reception was favourable with Allmusic suggesting that it was likely Paradis' best album yet. The first single, called Divine Idylle, was released to French radio in June 2007. This is the fifth studio album by Paradis, the last being her 2000 release Bliss. The track Divine Idylle was recently covered by Taiwanese singer Jolin Tsai on her latest release under the name Love Attraction.
Vanessa Paradis  Bliss (Vanessa Paradis album)  Bliss is a 2000 French pop album by singer Vanessa Paradis. It is her fourth studio album and contains the single Commando.
Vanessa Paradis  Vanessa Paradis (album)  Vanessa Paradis is the self-titled third album and English debut by popular French singer Vanessa Paradis. It was released in 1992 and contains the singles Be My Baby and Sunday Mondays.
Vanessa Paradis  Live (Vanessa Paradis album)  Live is the fourth album by Vanessa Paradis and her first live album. It was also her last album until Bliss. The album consists of Paradis singing some of her most popular songs to a live audience.
Vanessa Paradis  M&J  M&amp;J is the debut album of popular French singer and model Vanessa Paradis. It was released in 1988 and featured the hit single Joe le Taxi.
Vanessa Paradis  Variations sur le même t'aime  Variations sur le même t'aime is the second album by popular French singer Vanessa Paradis. It was released in France in 1990, and contains the hit singles Tandem and Dis-lui toi que je t'aime.
Vanessa Paradis  Au Zénith  Au Zénith is the second live album by singer Vanessa Paradis. Steve Nieve of Elvis Costello's The Attractions is featured on keyboard. This is her lowest-charting album.
Vanessa Paradis  Divinidylle Tour  Divinidylle Tour is the third live album by singer Vanessa Paradis. The album contains the songs performed on her 'Divinidylle' tour and was also released with a DVD which documented the tour and Paradis' promotion of the album. The DVD won a Victoires de la Musique award for Best DVD Musical of the year. http://www. challenges. fr/actualites/medias/20090301. AFP2964/victoire_de_la_musique_du_dvd_a_vanessa_paradis. html?xtor=RSS-16
Vanessa Paradis  Best of Vanessa Paradis  Best of Vanessa Paradis is the first greatest hits album from French musician and actress Vanessa Paradis. The album is also known as simply Best of. The first single from the album is the ballad Il y a, written and produced by Gaëtan Roussel. The video for the song was direct by 'JD'. http://www. evous. fr/musique/Vanessa-Paradis-Il-y-a-Gaetan,7330. html The album also contains Vanessa's rendition of I Love Paris that was used in advertisements for Aéroports de Paris. A collector's edition of the album will be available digitally on November 16, 2009. Included in the collector's edition is a 64-page book featuring more than 50 photos and documents tracing Vanessa's career. http://www. amazon. com/Best-Limited-Vanessa-Paradis/dp/B002SF2UVM/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=music&amp;qid=1258703069&amp;sr=8-1
Whitney Houston  Whitney Houston (album)  Whitney Houston is the debut album of American R&amp;B and pop singer Whitney Houston, released February 14, 1985 on Arista Records. The album initially had a slow commercial response but began getting more popular since the summer of 1985. Eventually it topped the Billboard 200 chart for fourteen weeks in 1986 and generated three number-one singles—Saving All My Love for You, How Will I Know and Greatest Love of All—on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, making it the first debut album and the first album by a female artist to achieve that feat. The album was one of those very rare cases that enjoyed global success by a new black female artist, topping the albums chart in many countries such as Canada, Australia, Norway and Sweden, peaking at number two in the United Kingdom, Germany, and Switzerland. The album was certified Diamond for shipments of 10 million units or more on March 16, 1999, and later 13&times; platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on July 29, 1999. It has sold over 25 million copies worldwide, becoming one of the best-selling albums of all time. At the 28th Grammy Awards in 1986, Whitney Houston received four nominations including Album of the Year and won one of which, Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female for Saving All My Love for You. For the 29th Grammy Awards of 1987, the album earned one nomination for Record of the Year for Greatest Love of All. In 2003, the album was ranked number 254 on Rolling Stone magazine's list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. In honor of its 25th anniversary, the album was re-released on January 26, 2010, in an expanded edition with five bonus tracks and a DVD.
Whitney Houston  Whitney (album)  Whitney is the second studio album by American pop/R&amp;B singer Whitney Houston, released in the United States on June 2, 1987 by Arista Records as the follow-up to her best selling debut album, Whitney Houston. The album met the expectations of many people and was sensationally popular after its release. With this album, Houston set historic records on the charts. It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart the issue of June 27, 1987, becoming the first album by a female artist, and only the fifth album by a solo artist. The album remained at the top for eleven consecutive weeks, creating a record; the most cumulative weeks (twenty-five weeks) at number one on the albums chart by a female artist during 1980s. Its first four singles—I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me), Didn't We Almost Have It All, So Emotional and Where Do Broken Hearts Go—all peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 chart, making her the first female artist to achieve that feat. In addition, along with three straight number one singles from the debut album, those of which that established an unprecedented seven consecutive number one hits by a performer, surpassing the Beatles and the Bee Gees. As well as in United States, the album and the first single, I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me), were enormous hits worldwide, topping the charts in the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and mainland Europe. She became an international star with this album, which made her the era's top female star. Whitney was certified 9&times; Platinum by the RIAA on November 29, 1995. At the 30th Grammy Awards of 1988, the album received three nominations including Album of the Year, winning her second Grammy, Best Pop Vocal Performance, Female for I Wanna Dance with Somebody (Who Loves Me).
Whitney Houston  I'm Your Baby Tonight  I'm Your Baby Tonight is the third studio album by American pop/R&amp;B singer Whitney Houston; released by Arista Records on November 6, 1990. Following the run of this album, Houston continued to achieve widespread commercial success throughout the 1990s, venturing heavily into films—while continuing to record via their adjoining soundtrack albums. Subsequently, I'm Your Baby Tonight would not be followed up with another studio album until 1998's My Love Is Your Love.
Whitney Houston  Just Whitney...  Just Whitney… is the fifth studio album by American recording artist Whitney Houston. It was released on December 10, 2010 in North America by Arista Records. The album was first studio album in four years, since her 1998 album My Love Is Your Love. It received mixed reviews from critics, and debuted at number nine of Billboard 200, with sales of 205,147 copies in the first week, beating her previous best first-week sales of 177,284 units with Waiting to Exhale: Original Soundtrack Album. It spawned four official singles - all of which were Hot Dance Club Play toppers. Since its release, Just Whitney...  has gone onto sell/ship more than 3 million units worldwide and has also earned Platinum certification in the U.S. and Switzerland and golg in France, Brazil and other countries. The album's sales in U.S. stands at 737,000 units.
Whitney Houston  My Love Is Your Love  My Love Is Your Love is the fourth studio album by American singer Whitney Houston, released in 1998. The album was composed of mid-tempo R&amp;B, hip hop, ballads, urban-dance, reggae, and torch songs. The first single to be released from the album was a ballad, a duet with Mariah Carey entitled When You Believe
Whitney Houston  One Wish: The Holiday Album  One Wish: The Holiday Album is the first Christmas album by American R&amp;B/pop singer Whitney Houston, released in 2003. The album featured the single One Wish (for Christmas), which reached the top twenty on Billboard's U.S. Adult Contemporary chart. The album spent six weeks on The Billboard 200 and has sold 445,566 copies in the U.S. to date. The New York Times noted the lavish swoops, the sultry whispers, the gospelly asides and the meteoric crescendos from Houston. The album also features a duet with Whitney's daughter Bobbi Kristina on The Little Drummer Boy.
Whitney Houston  The Bodyguard: Original Soundtrack Album  The Bodyguard is the soundtrack from the movie of the same name, released on November 17, 1992, on Arista Records and features songs by Whitney Houston, as well as songs from various other artists. The album was co-executive produced by Whitney Houston and Clive Davis. With this album, Houston became the first act (solo or group, male or female) to sell more than a million copies of an album within a single week period. The soundtrack later went on to win a Grammy Award for Album of the Year and was certified 17&times; Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on November 1, 1999. To date, it has sold over 44 million copies worldwide, becoming the best-selling soundtrack album of all time.
Whitney Houston  Whitney: The Greatest Hits  Whitney: The Greatest Hits is a compilation album by American singer Whitney Houston, released in 2000. The set consists of disc one with ballads and disc two with uptempo numbers and remixes. Houston's performance of The Star Spangled Banner at Super Bowl XXV, and 1988 Olympics tribute One Moment in Time are also included in the set. The release is also on DVD format which includes music videos of past hits, as well as live performances and interviews. The RIAA certified it 3&times; platinum on Nov 12, 2002, for shipments of 1.5 million in the U.S. Worldwide the album has sold an estimated 10 million copies to date. In the U.S. , copies sold at Circuit City stores included a third disc containing new club remixes.
Whitney Houston  Love, Whitney  Love, Whitney is a compilation album by Whitney Houston, released in the UK in 2001. It was the follow-up to Houston's multi-platinum greatest hits collection Whitney: The Greatest Hits (2000). Love, Whitney is a collection of ballads that have become her trademark over the years and includes a collection of nine top twenty hits.
Whitney Houston  The Preacher's Wife: Original Soundtrack Album  The Preacher's Wife is the soundtrack to the 1996 film of the same name and features songs performed by Whitney Houston, who also stars in the film. It is the best-selling gospel album of all time, and has sold an estimated 6 million copies worldwide. The lead single, I Believe in You and Me, became a top five hit in the U.S. and was nominated for Best Female R&amp;B Vocal Performance at the 40th Grammy Awards, as well as for Best R&amp;B Album. Step by Step was another hit single and has a music video. My Heart Is Calling became the soundtrack's final release.
Whitney Houston  The Ultimate Collection (Whitney Houston album)  The Ultimate Collection is a Whitney Houston greatest hits collection, released on October 29, 2007. For the first time, a single CD of Houston's hit singles is released. It debuted at number five in the UK, with sales of 37,228. It climbed to number three in its second week on the chart. In Brazil, the album was released as Whitney Houston - The Best So Far. Unlike the US edition of her previous singles compilation, Whitney: The Greatest Hits, the upbeat &amp; dance oriented songs - with the exception of I'm Your Baby Tonight - are not remixed and contain the original version of those songs (although a couple are shortened by up to 30 seconds).
Whitney Houston  You Are Loved (EP)  You Are Loved is a compilation EP by Whitney Houston, released by Arista Records in the United States on February 1, 1999. It was a limited edition CD exclusive to Target stores and featured six of Houston's biggest hits.
Whitney Houston  Welcome Home Heroes with Whitney Houston  Welcome Home Heroes with Whitney Houston, was Whitney Houston's first ever solo televised concert and DVD/video release. The DVD/video presents Houston performing live at the Naval Air Station in Norfolk, Virginia on March 31, 1991. The video was originally released on May 14 1991, and the DVD was released in 2002. The concert was dedicated to the troops, their families, and military and government dignitaries in honor of those returning from the Gulf War.
Whitney Houston  I Look to You  I Look to You is the seventh studio album by American R&amp;B-pop singer Whitney Houston. It was first released on August 28, 2009 through Sony Music in Europe, then August 31, 2009 with Arista Records in the United States before being released by RCA Records in the United Kingdom on October 19, 2009. The album is Houston's first studio album since One Wish: The Holiday Album (2003). It received generally favorable reviews from music critics, based on an aggregate score of 66/100 from Metacritic and debuted on the U.S. Billboard 200 at number one with sales of 305,000, beating her previous career best first-week sale of 205,000 units with Just Whitney (2002), and it was her first album to reach number one album in the United States since 1992's The Bodyguard. Additionally it became her fourth chart-topping album thus extending her lead as the female artist with the most cumulative weeks at the number one position. It has spawned two official singles including the title song which became a top 20 U.S. R&amp;B chart single and the international top 40 single Million Dollar Bill. Since release I Look to You has gone on to sell/ship more than two and a half million units worldwide earning platinum certification in seven countries and gold certification in eight. A promotional single, Nothing But Love, was only released to UK radio stations to promote the accompanying Nothing But Love World Tour.
Whitney Houston  I Didn't Know My Own Strength (Whitney Houston song)  I Didn't Know My Own Strength is song performed by American R&amp;B-pop singer Whitney Houston, taken from her much anticipated seventh studio album I Look to You (2009). The song was written by award-winning writer Diane Warren and produced by David Foster, both of whom have written and produced for Houston before. The song was originally supposed to proceed the album's UK release on August 31, 2009 and U.S. release on September 1, 2009 but was cancelled in favor of I Look to You and Million Dollar Bill.
Yoko Ono  Some Time in New York City  Some Time in New York City (rendered Sometime in New York City on the record label, inner jacket, and original compact disc) was released in 1972 and is John Lennon's third post-Beatles album, fifth with Yoko Ono, and third with producer Phil Spector. Primarily for its distinction as a dual Lennon &amp; Ono album and being preceded by a controversial single, Some Time in New York City fared poorly critically and commercially compared to Lennon's previous two albums, John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine.
小野 洋子  Some Time in New York City  Some Time in New York City (rendered Sometime in New York City on the record label, inner jacket, and original compact disc) was released in 1972 and is John Lennon's third post-Beatles album, fifth with Yoko Ono, and third with producer Phil Spector. Primarily for its distinction as a dual Lennon &amp; Ono album and being preceded by a controversial single, Some Time in New York City fared poorly critically and commercially compared to Lennon's previous two albums, John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Some Time in New York City  Some Time in New York City (rendered Sometime in New York City on the record label, inner jacket, and original compact disc) was released in 1972 and is John Lennon's third post-Beatles album, fifth with Yoko Ono, and third with producer Phil Spector. Primarily for its distinction as a dual Lennon &amp; Ono album and being preceded by a controversial single, Some Time in New York City fared poorly critically and commercially compared to Lennon's previous two albums, John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band and Imagine.
Yoko Ono  Double Fantasy  Double Fantasy is the comeback album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono, released in 1980 initially on the newly-formed Geffen Records, and then from 1989 onwards through EMI. It is notable for being John Lennon's final release during his lifetime, released only three weeks before his murder. The album won the 1981 Grammy Award for Album of the Year and is Lennon's best-selling studio album at three million shipments in the U.S. On October 5, 2010 a two-CD set called Double Fantasy Stripped Down, which pairs a newly-remastered copy of the original album along with an alternate version of the album featuring simpler arrangements while also highlighting Lennon's vocals, was released.
小野 洋子  Double Fantasy  Double Fantasy is the comeback album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono, released in 1980 initially on the newly-formed Geffen Records, and then from 1989 onwards through EMI. It is notable for being John Lennon's final release during his lifetime, released only three weeks before his murder. The album won the 1981 Grammy Award for Album of the Year and is Lennon's best-selling studio album at three million shipments in the U.S. On October 5, 2010 a two-CD set called Double Fantasy Stripped Down, which pairs a newly-remastered copy of the original album along with an alternate version of the album featuring simpler arrangements while also highlighting Lennon's vocals, was released.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Double Fantasy  Double Fantasy is the comeback album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono, released in 1980 initially on the newly-formed Geffen Records, and then from 1989 onwards through EMI. It is notable for being John Lennon's final release during his lifetime, released only three weeks before his murder. The album won the 1981 Grammy Award for Album of the Year and is Lennon's best-selling studio album at three million shipments in the U.S. On October 5, 2010 a two-CD set called Double Fantasy Stripped Down, which pairs a newly-remastered copy of the original album along with an alternate version of the album featuring simpler arrangements while also highlighting Lennon's vocals, was released.
Yoko Ono  Wedding Album  Wedding Album is the final in a succession of three experimental albums by John Lennon and Yoko Ono. Released in 1969, it consisted of two tracks, one on each side of the record: John &amp; Yoko, the first side, is a recording of Lennon and Ono calling to each other, through a range of emotions, over the sound of their heartbeats. Amsterdam, the second side, consists of interviews, conversations, and captured sounds during the couple's famous Bed-In honeymoon, after being married on 20 March of that year. Interestingly, a brief excerpt of the Beatles song, Because appears on this side. John Lennon also sings the opening verses of Good Night from the White Album. The record came as an elaborate box set designed by John Kosh
小野 洋子  Wedding Album  Wedding Album is the final in a succession of three experimental albums by John Lennon and Yoko Ono. Released in 1969, it consisted of two tracks, one on each side of the record: John &amp; Yoko, the first side, is a recording of Lennon and Ono calling to each other, through a range of emotions, over the sound of their heartbeats. Amsterdam, the second side, consists of interviews, conversations, and captured sounds during the couple's famous Bed-In honeymoon, after being married on 20 March of that year. Interestingly, a brief excerpt of the Beatles song, Because appears on this side. John Lennon also sings the opening verses of Good Night from the White Album. The record came as an elaborate box set designed by John Kosh
Yoko Ono Lennon  Wedding Album  Wedding Album is the final in a succession of three experimental albums by John Lennon and Yoko Ono. Released in 1969, it consisted of two tracks, one on each side of the record: John &amp; Yoko, the first side, is a recording of Lennon and Ono calling to each other, through a range of emotions, over the sound of their heartbeats. Amsterdam, the second side, consists of interviews, conversations, and captured sounds during the couple's famous Bed-In honeymoon, after being married on 20 March of that year. Interestingly, a brief excerpt of the Beatles song, Because appears on this side. John Lennon also sings the opening verses of Good Night from the White Album. The record came as an elaborate box set designed by John Kosh
Yoko Ono  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions is an album of noise music released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1969, and the successor to 1968's highly controversial Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins. The title parodies the BBC radio drama Life with the Lyons, which had been a favourite of Lennon's. The album opens with an extended and improvised recording titled Cambridge 1969, recorded on 2 March at Cambridge University, before a live audience. The piece consists of Yoko Ono's vocalisations accompanied by electric guitar feedback from John Lennon. Saxophonist John Tchicai and percussionist John Stevens join Ono and Lennon towards the end of the piece. The remainder of the album was recorded on a cassette tape in their suite at Queen Charlotte's Hospital in London during November 1968, where Ono would suffer the first of three miscarriages by the couple. No Bed For Beatle John consists of John and Yoko singing the text of press clippings about themselves, in a cappella chant style. Baby's Heartbeat is a recording (made with a Nagra microphone) of the ill-fated child's actual palpitations. Two Minutes Silence follows; sometimes compared to composer John Cage's 4'33 in that, like Cage's avant garde composition, it is completely silent, the track was intended as a memoriam for the baby, and for all violence and death.  The album closes with Radio Play; thirteen minutes of a radio dial flipped back and forth with brief moments of John Lennon making a telephone call in the background. (Incidentally, The Beatles song Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da is discernible amongst the radio static during this recording. ) The album's front cover photo was taken while Ono was bedridden at Queen Charlotte's with Lennon by her side, while the back cover was a news photo of Lennon and Ono leaving Marylebone Police Station, after their arrest for hashish possession on 18 October 1968. (The back also carried a 'quote' from Beatles producer George Martin
小野 洋子  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions is an album of noise music released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1969, and the successor to 1968's highly controversial Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins. The title parodies the BBC radio drama Life with the Lyons, which had been a favourite of Lennon's. The album opens with an extended and improvised recording titled Cambridge 1969, recorded on 2 March at Cambridge University, before a live audience. The piece consists of Yoko Ono's vocalisations accompanied by electric guitar feedback from John Lennon. Saxophonist John Tchicai and percussionist John Stevens join Ono and Lennon towards the end of the piece. The remainder of the album was recorded on a cassette tape in their suite at Queen Charlotte's Hospital in London during November 1968, where Ono would suffer the first of three miscarriages by the couple. No Bed For Beatle John consists of John and Yoko singing the text of press clippings about themselves, in a cappella chant style. Baby's Heartbeat is a recording (made with a Nagra microphone) of the ill-fated child's actual palpitations. Two Minutes Silence follows; sometimes compared to composer John Cage's 4'33 in that, like Cage's avant garde composition, it is completely silent, the track was intended as a memoriam for the baby, and for all violence and death.  The album closes with Radio Play; thirteen minutes of a radio dial flipped back and forth with brief moments of John Lennon making a telephone call in the background. (Incidentally, The Beatles song Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da is discernible amongst the radio static during this recording. ) The album's front cover photo was taken while Ono was bedridden at Queen Charlotte's with Lennon by her side, while the back cover was a news photo of Lennon and Ono leaving Marylebone Police Station, after their arrest for hashish possession on 18 October 1968. (The back also carried a 'quote' from Beatles producer George Martin
Yoko Ono Lennon  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions  Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions is an album of noise music released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1969, and the successor to 1968's highly controversial Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins. The title parodies the BBC radio drama Life with the Lyons, which had been a favourite of Lennon's. The album opens with an extended and improvised recording titled Cambridge 1969, recorded on 2 March at Cambridge University, before a live audience. The piece consists of Yoko Ono's vocalisations accompanied by electric guitar feedback from John Lennon. Saxophonist John Tchicai and percussionist John Stevens join Ono and Lennon towards the end of the piece. The remainder of the album was recorded on a cassette tape in their suite at Queen Charlotte's Hospital in London during November 1968, where Ono would suffer the first of three miscarriages by the couple. No Bed For Beatle John consists of John and Yoko singing the text of press clippings about themselves, in a cappella chant style. Baby's Heartbeat is a recording (made with a Nagra microphone) of the ill-fated child's actual palpitations. Two Minutes Silence follows; sometimes compared to composer John Cage's 4'33 in that, like Cage's avant garde composition, it is completely silent, the track was intended as a memoriam for the baby, and for all violence and death.  The album closes with Radio Play; thirteen minutes of a radio dial flipped back and forth with brief moments of John Lennon making a telephone call in the background. (Incidentally, The Beatles song Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da is discernible amongst the radio static during this recording. ) The album's front cover photo was taken while Ono was bedridden at Queen Charlotte's with Lennon by her side, while the back cover was a news photo of Lennon and Ono leaving Marylebone Police Station, after their arrest for hashish possession on 18 October 1968. (The back also carried a 'quote' from Beatles producer George Martin
Yoko Ono  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins is an album released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1968. The result of an all-night session of musical experimentation in Lennon's home studio at Kenwood, John and Yoko's debut album is known not only for its avant garde content, but also for its cover. The album's title came from the couple's feeling that they were two innocents, lost in a world gone mad, and because after making the recording, the two consummated their relationship. The recording consists largely of tape loops, playing while Lennon tries out different instruments (piano, organ, drums) and sound effects, changes tapes and plays other recordings, and converses with Ono, who vocalises ad-lib in response to the sounds. Lennon's longtime friend Peter Shotton remembered later in his memoir (The Beatles, Lennon and Me) that many of the loops were made by Lennon and himself, in the days before the recording. Lennon recorded directly to two-track stereophonic, but much of the source material was monophonic. Two Virgins was the third album released under the Apple Records label, after George Harrison's Wonderwall Music and The Beatles. It was distributed by Track Records in the United Kingdom and Tetragrammaton Records in the United States, after EMI in the UK and Capitol Records in the US refused to handle it, because of the cover photo. (Nonetheless, EMI mastered and pressed the record in Britain, charging their standard fee. ) The couple soon after released a related recording called Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions. Fellow Beatle Paul McCartney was asked to provide a note on the album cover, which read: When two great Saints meet, it is a humbling experience. The long battles to prove he was a Saint.
小野 洋子  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins is an album released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1968. The result of an all-night session of musical experimentation in Lennon's home studio at Kenwood, John and Yoko's debut album is known not only for its avant garde content, but also for its cover. The album's title came from the couple's feeling that they were two innocents, lost in a world gone mad, and because after making the recording, the two consummated their relationship. The recording consists largely of tape loops, playing while Lennon tries out different instruments (piano, organ, drums) and sound effects, changes tapes and plays other recordings, and converses with Ono, who vocalises ad-lib in response to the sounds. Lennon's longtime friend Peter Shotton remembered later in his memoir (The Beatles, Lennon and Me) that many of the loops were made by Lennon and himself, in the days before the recording. Lennon recorded directly to two-track stereophonic, but much of the source material was monophonic. Two Virgins was the third album released under the Apple Records label, after George Harrison's Wonderwall Music and The Beatles. It was distributed by Track Records in the United Kingdom and Tetragrammaton Records in the United States, after EMI in the UK and Capitol Records in the US refused to handle it, because of the cover photo. (Nonetheless, EMI mastered and pressed the record in Britain, charging their standard fee. ) The couple soon after released a related recording called Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions. Fellow Beatle Paul McCartney was asked to provide a note on the album cover, which read: When two great Saints meet, it is a humbling experience. The long battles to prove he was a Saint.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins  Unfinished Music No.1: Two Virgins is an album released by John Lennon and Yoko Ono in 1968. The result of an all-night session of musical experimentation in Lennon's home studio at Kenwood, John and Yoko's debut album is known not only for its avant garde content, but also for its cover. The album's title came from the couple's feeling that they were two innocents, lost in a world gone mad, and because after making the recording, the two consummated their relationship. The recording consists largely of tape loops, playing while Lennon tries out different instruments (piano, organ, drums) and sound effects, changes tapes and plays other recordings, and converses with Ono, who vocalises ad-lib in response to the sounds. Lennon's longtime friend Peter Shotton remembered later in his memoir (The Beatles, Lennon and Me) that many of the loops were made by Lennon and himself, in the days before the recording. Lennon recorded directly to two-track stereophonic, but much of the source material was monophonic. Two Virgins was the third album released under the Apple Records label, after George Harrison's Wonderwall Music and The Beatles. It was distributed by Track Records in the United Kingdom and Tetragrammaton Records in the United States, after EMI in the UK and Capitol Records in the US refused to handle it, because of the cover photo. (Nonetheless, EMI mastered and pressed the record in Britain, charging their standard fee. ) The couple soon after released a related recording called Unfinished Music No.2: Life with the Lions. Fellow Beatle Paul McCartney was asked to provide a note on the album cover, which read: When two great Saints meet, it is a humbling experience. The long battles to prove he was a Saint.
Yoko Ono  Milk and Honey (album)  Milk and Honey is an album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono released in 1984. It is the first posthumous release of Lennon's music, having been recorded in the last months of his life during and following the sessions for Double Fantasy. Milk and Honey was the duo's projected follow-up to Double Fantasy, though Lennon's death caused a temporary shelving of the project. It took Ono three years to be able to resume work to complete it. Ono's material largely comprises new recordings, which she undertook during the album's preparation in 1983, which give her songs a more commercial and contemporary edge. Conversely, Lennon's material, being rough takes and rehearsal recordings, has a more casual feeling. Nobody Told Me, a song Lennon had intended for Ringo Starr's upcoming album Stop and Smell the Roses, was released as a single and became a worldwide Top 10 hit. Other singles from the album were I'm Stepping Out and Borrowed Time. The album title is a reference to John and Yoko's relationship, milk and honey being an expression for an Asian/Caucasian mixed-race couple.
小野 洋子  Milk and Honey (album)  Milk and Honey is an album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono released in 1984. It is the first posthumous release of Lennon's music, having been recorded in the last months of his life during and following the sessions for Double Fantasy. Milk and Honey was the duo's projected follow-up to Double Fantasy, though Lennon's death caused a temporary shelving of the project. It took Ono three years to be able to resume work to complete it. Ono's material largely comprises new recordings, which she undertook during the album's preparation in 1983, which give her songs a more commercial and contemporary edge. Conversely, Lennon's material, being rough takes and rehearsal recordings, has a more casual feeling. Nobody Told Me, a song Lennon had intended for Ringo Starr's upcoming album Stop and Smell the Roses, was released as a single and became a worldwide Top 10 hit. Other singles from the album were I'm Stepping Out and Borrowed Time. The album title is a reference to John and Yoko's relationship, milk and honey being an expression for an Asian/Caucasian mixed-race couple.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Milk and Honey (album)  Milk and Honey is an album by John Lennon and Yoko Ono released in 1984. It is the first posthumous release of Lennon's music, having been recorded in the last months of his life during and following the sessions for Double Fantasy. Milk and Honey was the duo's projected follow-up to Double Fantasy, though Lennon's death caused a temporary shelving of the project. It took Ono three years to be able to resume work to complete it. Ono's material largely comprises new recordings, which she undertook during the album's preparation in 1983, which give her songs a more commercial and contemporary edge. Conversely, Lennon's material, being rough takes and rehearsal recordings, has a more casual feeling. Nobody Told Me, a song Lennon had intended for Ringo Starr's upcoming album Stop and Smell the Roses, was released as a single and became a worldwide Top 10 hit. Other singles from the album were I'm Stepping Out and Borrowed Time. The album title is a reference to John and Yoko's relationship, milk and honey being an expression for an Asian/Caucasian mixed-race couple.
Yoko Ono  It's Alright (I See Rainbows)  It's Alright (I See Rainbows) is the sixth solo album by Yoko Ono, and her second release after the death of husband John Lennon. As a variation of a theme concerning its predecessor, the back cover features a transparent image of Lennon in a then-contemporary photo of Yoko and Sean, depicted in Central Park. This album marks her first foray into new wave
小野 洋子  It's Alright (I See Rainbows)  It's Alright (I See Rainbows) is the sixth solo album by Yoko Ono, and her second release after the death of husband John Lennon. As a variation of a theme concerning its predecessor, the back cover features a transparent image of Lennon in a then-contemporary photo of Yoko and Sean, depicted in Central Park. This album marks her first foray into new wave
Yoko Ono Lennon  It's Alright (I See Rainbows)  It's Alright (I See Rainbows) is the sixth solo album by Yoko Ono, and her second release after the death of husband John Lennon. As a variation of a theme concerning its predecessor, the back cover features a transparent image of Lennon in a then-contemporary photo of Yoko and Sean, depicted in Central Park. This album marks her first foray into new wave
Yoko Ono  Walking on Thin Ice (album)  Walking on Thin Ice is a greatest-hits compilation of Yoko Ono's work from 1971 to 1985. It was released by Rykodisc in 1992, along with the more comprehensive 6-disc Onobox set. The booklet includes an essay by Yoko, pieces from her book Grapefruit, and quotes about Ono from artists such as David Bowie, Eric Clapton and Cyndi Lauper.
小野 洋子  Walking on Thin Ice (album)  Walking on Thin Ice is a greatest-hits compilation of Yoko Ono's work from 1971 to 1985. It was released by Rykodisc in 1992, along with the more comprehensive 6-disc Onobox set. The booklet includes an essay by Yoko, pieces from her book Grapefruit, and quotes about Ono from artists such as David Bowie, Eric Clapton and Cyndi Lauper.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Walking on Thin Ice (album)  Walking on Thin Ice is a greatest-hits compilation of Yoko Ono's work from 1971 to 1985. It was released by Rykodisc in 1992, along with the more comprehensive 6-disc Onobox set. The booklet includes an essay by Yoko, pieces from her book Grapefruit, and quotes about Ono from artists such as David Bowie, Eric Clapton and Cyndi Lauper.
Yoko Ono  Onobox  Onobox is a 1992 comprehensive 6-disc collection of Yoko Ono's work from 1968 to 1985. The discs are grouped by era and theme. Disc six is the previously unreleased 1974 album A Story, which was later reissued separately along with the rest of Ono's back catalogue. There was also an accompanying concise one-disc greatest hits release, entitled Walking On Thin Ice. The Rykodisc press release for Onobox declared the collection not as bad as you might think.
小野 洋子  Onobox  Onobox is a 1992 comprehensive 6-disc collection of Yoko Ono's work from 1968 to 1985. The discs are grouped by era and theme. Disc six is the previously unreleased 1974 album A Story, which was later reissued separately along with the rest of Ono's back catalogue. There was also an accompanying concise one-disc greatest hits release, entitled Walking On Thin Ice. The Rykodisc press release for Onobox declared the collection not as bad as you might think.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Onobox  Onobox is a 1992 comprehensive 6-disc collection of Yoko Ono's work from 1968 to 1985. The discs are grouped by era and theme. Disc six is the previously unreleased 1974 album A Story, which was later reissued separately along with the rest of Ono's back catalogue. There was also an accompanying concise one-disc greatest hits release, entitled Walking On Thin Ice. The Rykodisc press release for Onobox declared the collection not as bad as you might think.
Yoko Ono  New York Rock  New York Rock is an off-Broadway musical by Yoko Ono. It is a thinly veiled account of her life with John Lennon. The musical contains many songs from Ono's albums throughout the years, as well as several new tracks, some of which were reworked for inclusion on Rising.
小野 洋子  New York Rock  New York Rock is an off-Broadway musical by Yoko Ono. It is a thinly veiled account of her life with John Lennon. The musical contains many songs from Ono's albums throughout the years, as well as several new tracks, some of which were reworked for inclusion on Rising.
Yoko Ono Lennon  New York Rock  New York Rock is an off-Broadway musical by Yoko Ono. It is a thinly veiled account of her life with John Lennon. The musical contains many songs from Ono's albums throughout the years, as well as several new tracks, some of which were reworked for inclusion on Rising.
Yoko Ono  Blueprint for a Sunrise  Blueprint for a Sunrise is a concept album of experimental feminist rock by Yoko Ono. It features live tracks, samples and remixes of previous recordings, and a sequel. The recurring theme throughout is the suffering of women. In the liner notes, Ono talks about the continuing relevance of feminism and waking up in the middle of the night hearing thousands of women screaming. It did not chart but was critically acclaimed and became an underground hit. The album has sold around 3,000 copies in the USAhttp://www. billboard. com/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story#/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story.
小野 洋子  Blueprint for a Sunrise  Blueprint for a Sunrise is a concept album of experimental feminist rock by Yoko Ono. It features live tracks, samples and remixes of previous recordings, and a sequel. The recurring theme throughout is the suffering of women. In the liner notes, Ono talks about the continuing relevance of feminism and waking up in the middle of the night hearing thousands of women screaming. It did not chart but was critically acclaimed and became an underground hit. The album has sold around 3,000 copies in the USAhttp://www. billboard. com/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story#/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Blueprint for a Sunrise  Blueprint for a Sunrise is a concept album of experimental feminist rock by Yoko Ono. It features live tracks, samples and remixes of previous recordings, and a sequel. The recurring theme throughout is the suffering of women. In the liner notes, Ono talks about the continuing relevance of feminism and waking up in the middle of the night hearing thousands of women screaming. It did not chart but was critically acclaimed and became an underground hit. The album has sold around 3,000 copies in the USAhttp://www. billboard. com/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story#/column-chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story.
Yoko Ono  Season of Glass  Season of Glass is a 1981 album by Yoko Ono, her first solo recording after the murder of her husband John Lennon. The album was released less than six months after Lennon's death and deals with it directly in songs such as Goodbye Sadness and I Don't Know Why. The controversial front cover features Lennon's actual bloodstained glasses positioned next to a half-filled glass of water, with a view of Central Park in the background. Ono once explained that she chose this cover to remind people that John didn't just die... he had been murdered. A young Sean Lennon
小野 洋子  Season of Glass  Season of Glass is a 1981 album by Yoko Ono, her first solo recording after the murder of her husband John Lennon. The album was released less than six months after Lennon's death and deals with it directly in songs such as Goodbye Sadness and I Don't Know Why. The controversial front cover features Lennon's actual bloodstained glasses positioned next to a half-filled glass of water, with a view of Central Park in the background. Ono once explained that she chose this cover to remind people that John didn't just die... he had been murdered. A young Sean Lennon
Yoko Ono Lennon  Season of Glass  Season of Glass is a 1981 album by Yoko Ono, her first solo recording after the murder of her husband John Lennon. The album was released less than six months after Lennon's death and deals with it directly in songs such as Goodbye Sadness and I Don't Know Why. The controversial front cover features Lennon's actual bloodstained glasses positioned next to a half-filled glass of water, with a view of Central Park in the background. Ono once explained that she chose this cover to remind people that John didn't just die... he had been murdered. A young Sean Lennon
Yoko Ono  A Story  A Story is an album by Yoko Ono, recorded in 1974, during the lost weekend sessions in which John Lennon produced Walls And Bridges. The album went unreleased until the 1992 box set Onobox, which featured material from A Story on disc six. It only saw proper release as an individual album in 1997, with the re-issuing of Ono's back catalogue by Rykodisc. The reissue added three bonus tracks, including home demos and a live recording from the Starpeace tour.
小野 洋子  A Story  A Story is an album by Yoko Ono, recorded in 1974, during the lost weekend sessions in which John Lennon produced Walls And Bridges. The album went unreleased until the 1992 box set Onobox, which featured material from A Story on disc six. It only saw proper release as an individual album in 1997, with the re-issuing of Ono's back catalogue by Rykodisc. The reissue added three bonus tracks, including home demos and a live recording from the Starpeace tour.
Yoko Ono Lennon  A Story  A Story is an album by Yoko Ono, recorded in 1974, during the lost weekend sessions in which John Lennon produced Walls And Bridges. The album went unreleased until the 1992 box set Onobox, which featured material from A Story on disc six. It only saw proper release as an individual album in 1997, with the re-issuing of Ono's back catalogue by Rykodisc. The reissue added three bonus tracks, including home demos and a live recording from the Starpeace tour.
Yoko Ono  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band is the avant-garde debut album by Yoko Ono, which came after recording three experimental releases with John Lennon and a live album as a member of the Plastic Ono Band. With the exception of one track, the entire album emerged from one raw and cacophonous freeform session when, improvising throughout, Ono develops and pushes to extremes her characteristic trademark, a strained vocal style derived from Japanese hetai, a vocal technique used in Kabuki performances. It was recorded simultaneously with her husband's John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band at Ascot Sound Studios and Abbey Road Studios using the same musicians and production team. Initially on Apple Records, through EMI, Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band was released to considerable critical disdain in 1970, at a time when Ono was being widely blamed for the break-up of The Beatles. Notable exceptions were the estimations of Billboard who called it 'visionary' and critic Lester Bangs who supported it in Rolling Stone. More recently, the album has been credited (like those of The Velvet Underground) with having an influence, particularly on musicians, grossly disproportionate to its sales and visibility. Critic David Browne of Entertainment Weekly, has credited the album with launching a hundred or more female alternative rockers, like Kate Pierson of the B-52s to current thrashers like L7 and Courtney Love of Hole
小野 洋子  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band is the avant-garde debut album by Yoko Ono, which came after recording three experimental releases with John Lennon and a live album as a member of the Plastic Ono Band. With the exception of one track, the entire album emerged from one raw and cacophonous freeform session when, improvising throughout, Ono develops and pushes to extremes her characteristic trademark, a strained vocal style derived from Japanese hetai, a vocal technique used in Kabuki performances. It was recorded simultaneously with her husband's John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band at Ascot Sound Studios and Abbey Road Studios using the same musicians and production team. Initially on Apple Records, through EMI, Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band was released to considerable critical disdain in 1970, at a time when Ono was being widely blamed for the break-up of The Beatles. Notable exceptions were the estimations of Billboard who called it 'visionary' and critic Lester Bangs who supported it in Rolling Stone. More recently, the album has been credited (like those of The Velvet Underground) with having an influence, particularly on musicians, grossly disproportionate to its sales and visibility. Critic David Browne of Entertainment Weekly, has credited the album with launching a hundred or more female alternative rockers, like Kate Pierson of the B-52s to current thrashers like L7 and Courtney Love of Hole
Yoko Ono Lennon  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band  Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band is the avant-garde debut album by Yoko Ono, which came after recording three experimental releases with John Lennon and a live album as a member of the Plastic Ono Band. With the exception of one track, the entire album emerged from one raw and cacophonous freeform session when, improvising throughout, Ono develops and pushes to extremes her characteristic trademark, a strained vocal style derived from Japanese hetai, a vocal technique used in Kabuki performances. It was recorded simultaneously with her husband's John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band at Ascot Sound Studios and Abbey Road Studios using the same musicians and production team. Initially on Apple Records, through EMI, Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band was released to considerable critical disdain in 1970, at a time when Ono was being widely blamed for the break-up of The Beatles. Notable exceptions were the estimations of Billboard who called it 'visionary' and critic Lester Bangs who supported it in Rolling Stone. More recently, the album has been credited (like those of The Velvet Underground) with having an influence, particularly on musicians, grossly disproportionate to its sales and visibility. Critic David Browne of Entertainment Weekly, has credited the album with launching a hundred or more female alternative rockers, like Kate Pierson of the B-52s to current thrashers like L7 and Courtney Love of Hole
Yoko Ono  Rising (Yoko Ono album)  Rising is a 1995 album by avant-garde artist Yoko Ono. Released on November 7, on Capitol Records, the album features the backing band IMA (Japanese for Now), which included Ono's son Sean Lennon, Timo Ellis, and Sam Koppelman. The album has sold 11,000 copies in the United States to date. http://www. billboard. com/#/column/chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story?page=1
小野 洋子  Rising (Yoko Ono album)  Rising is a 1995 album by avant-garde artist Yoko Ono. Released on November 7, on Capitol Records, the album features the backing band IMA (Japanese for Now), which included Ono's son Sean Lennon, Timo Ellis, and Sam Koppelman. The album has sold 11,000 copies in the United States to date. http://www. billboard. com/#/column/chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story?page=1
Yoko Ono Lennon  Rising (Yoko Ono album)  Rising is a 1995 album by avant-garde artist Yoko Ono. Released on November 7, on Capitol Records, the album features the backing band IMA (Japanese for Now), which included Ono's son Sean Lennon, Timo Ellis, and Sam Koppelman. The album has sold 11,000 copies in the United States to date. http://www. billboard. com/#/column/chartbeat/ask-billboard-madonna-yoko-ono-gospel-1004014251. story?page=1
Yoko Ono  Fly (Yoko Ono album)  Fly is the second album by Yoko Ono. It was produced by Joe Jones and released in 1971. It was a complete avant-garde/Fluxus package in a gatefold sleeve that came with a full-size poster and a postcard to order Ono's book Grapefruit. Notable songs include the singles Midsummer New York and Mrs. Lennon, Hirake aka Open Your Box and Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking For Her Hand in the Snow), dedicated to Ono's daughter Kyoko Cox. Airmale is the soundtrack to John Lennon's film Erection, showing a building being erected in time lapsed photography, while Fly is the soundtrack to Fly the film by Ono.
小野 洋子  Fly (Yoko Ono album)  Fly is the second album by Yoko Ono. It was produced by Joe Jones and released in 1971. It was a complete avant-garde/Fluxus package in a gatefold sleeve that came with a full-size poster and a postcard to order Ono's book Grapefruit. Notable songs include the singles Midsummer New York and Mrs. Lennon, Hirake aka Open Your Box and Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking For Her Hand in the Snow), dedicated to Ono's daughter Kyoko Cox. Airmale is the soundtrack to John Lennon's film Erection, showing a building being erected in time lapsed photography, while Fly is the soundtrack to Fly the film by Ono.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Fly (Yoko Ono album)  Fly is the second album by Yoko Ono. It was produced by Joe Jones and released in 1971. It was a complete avant-garde/Fluxus package in a gatefold sleeve that came with a full-size poster and a postcard to order Ono's book Grapefruit. Notable songs include the singles Midsummer New York and Mrs. Lennon, Hirake aka Open Your Box and Don't Worry, Kyoko (Mummy's Only Looking For Her Hand in the Snow), dedicated to Ono's daughter Kyoko Cox. Airmale is the soundtrack to John Lennon's film Erection, showing a building being erected in time lapsed photography, while Fly is the soundtrack to Fly the film by Ono.
Yoko Ono  Approximately Infinite Universe  Approximately Infinite Universe is a double album by Yoko Ono, released in early 1973. It represents a departure from the experimental avant garde rock of her first two albums towards a more conventional pop/rock sound, while also dabbling in feminist rock
小野 洋子  Approximately Infinite Universe  Approximately Infinite Universe is a double album by Yoko Ono, released in early 1973. It represents a departure from the experimental avant garde rock of her first two albums towards a more conventional pop/rock sound, while also dabbling in feminist rock
Yoko Ono Lennon  Approximately Infinite Universe  Approximately Infinite Universe is a double album by Yoko Ono, released in early 1973. It represents a departure from the experimental avant garde rock of her first two albums towards a more conventional pop/rock sound, while also dabbling in feminist rock
Yoko Ono  Feeling the Space  Feeling the Space is Yoko Ono's fourth album, her last one on Apple Records, and her last release of the 1970s. (A fifth album, A Story, would be recorded in 1974, but not released until 1997. ) The entire album adopts a feminist theme, focusing on the plights of women in the 1970s. Its liner notes parody adult advertising, giving the telephone numbers, birthdates and vital statistics of the male band members. (John Lennon appears as John O'Cean, with his number listed as Not For Sale.)
小野 洋子  Feeling the Space  Feeling the Space is Yoko Ono's fourth album, her last one on Apple Records, and her last release of the 1970s. (A fifth album, A Story, would be recorded in 1974, but not released until 1997. ) The entire album adopts a feminist theme, focusing on the plights of women in the 1970s. Its liner notes parody adult advertising, giving the telephone numbers, birthdates and vital statistics of the male band members. (John Lennon appears as John O'Cean, with his number listed as Not For Sale.)
Yoko Ono Lennon  Feeling the Space  Feeling the Space is Yoko Ono's fourth album, her last one on Apple Records, and her last release of the 1970s. (A fifth album, A Story, would be recorded in 1974, but not released until 1997. ) The entire album adopts a feminist theme, focusing on the plights of women in the 1970s. Its liner notes parody adult advertising, giving the telephone numbers, birthdates and vital statistics of the male band members. (John Lennon appears as John O'Cean, with his number listed as Not For Sale.)
Yoko Ono  Starpeace  Starpeace is Yoko Ono's 1985 concept album, designed to spread a message of peace around the world as an opposition to Ronald Reagan's Star Wars missile defense system. As with most Ono albums it did not chart extensively but the single release of Hell in Paradise
小野 洋子  Starpeace  Starpeace is Yoko Ono's 1985 concept album, designed to spread a message of peace around the world as an opposition to Ronald Reagan's Star Wars missile defense system. As with most Ono albums it did not chart extensively but the single release of Hell in Paradise
Yoko Ono Lennon  Starpeace  Starpeace is Yoko Ono's 1985 concept album, designed to spread a message of peace around the world as an opposition to Ronald Reagan's Star Wars missile defense system. As with most Ono albums it did not chart extensively but the single release of Hell in Paradise
Yoko Ono  Yes, I'm a Witch  Yes, I'm a Witch is a remix album by Yoko Ono released on February 6, 2007. Artists invited to contribute were asked to select a song from Ono's back catalogue, and were then presented with all the necessary elements to create a remix/cover to their desires. According to the press release, nearly every artist chose only the vocals, and created entirely new backing tracks to demonstrate the versatility of Ono's compositions. The song choices span Ono's career from her early experimental work with John Lennon in the late 1960s through to her solo career in the 70s and 80s. The album draws its title from a 1974 Ono song featured on her album A Story, a track which is featured on the album in a reworked version by The Brother Brothers. A follow-up compilation of dance remixes, Open Your Box was released on April 24.
小野 洋子  Yes, I'm a Witch  Yes, I'm a Witch is a remix album by Yoko Ono released on February 6, 2007. Artists invited to contribute were asked to select a song from Ono's back catalogue, and were then presented with all the necessary elements to create a remix/cover to their desires. According to the press release, nearly every artist chose only the vocals, and created entirely new backing tracks to demonstrate the versatility of Ono's compositions. The song choices span Ono's career from her early experimental work with John Lennon in the late 1960s through to her solo career in the 70s and 80s. The album draws its title from a 1974 Ono song featured on her album A Story, a track which is featured on the album in a reworked version by The Brother Brothers. A follow-up compilation of dance remixes, Open Your Box was released on April 24.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Yes, I'm a Witch  Yes, I'm a Witch is a remix album by Yoko Ono released on February 6, 2007. Artists invited to contribute were asked to select a song from Ono's back catalogue, and were then presented with all the necessary elements to create a remix/cover to their desires. According to the press release, nearly every artist chose only the vocals, and created entirely new backing tracks to demonstrate the versatility of Ono's compositions. The song choices span Ono's career from her early experimental work with John Lennon in the late 1960s through to her solo career in the 70s and 80s. The album draws its title from a 1974 Ono song featured on her album A Story, a track which is featured on the album in a reworked version by The Brother Brothers. A follow-up compilation of dance remixes, Open Your Box was released on April 24.
Yoko Ono  Open Your Box (album)  Open Your Box is a remix album by Yoko Ono which was released on April 24, 2007. It is a compilation of her successful series of remix singles released since 2001 with the addition of several new mixes. Collaborators include Basement Jaxx, Felix Da Housecat and the Pet Shop Boys
小野 洋子  Open Your Box (album)  Open Your Box is a remix album by Yoko Ono which was released on April 24, 2007. It is a compilation of her successful series of remix singles released since 2001 with the addition of several new mixes. Collaborators include Basement Jaxx, Felix Da Housecat and the Pet Shop Boys
Yoko Ono Lennon  Open Your Box (album)  Open Your Box is a remix album by Yoko Ono which was released on April 24, 2007. It is a compilation of her successful series of remix singles released since 2001 with the addition of several new mixes. Collaborators include Basement Jaxx, Felix Da Housecat and the Pet Shop Boys
Yoko Ono  Don't Stop Me!  Don't Stop Me! EP is an iTunes EP release by Yoko Ono. The album is also available in the form of a promotional-only compact disc, leading up to her album Between My Head and the Sky, released in September 2009. It features a remix of The Sun is Down! by Japanese musician Cornelius, who also features in the new Plastic Ono Band lineup on the upcoming album.
小野 洋子  Don't Stop Me!  Don't Stop Me! EP is an iTunes EP release by Yoko Ono. The album is also available in the form of a promotional-only compact disc, leading up to her album Between My Head and the Sky, released in September 2009. It features a remix of The Sun is Down! by Japanese musician Cornelius, who also features in the new Plastic Ono Band lineup on the upcoming album.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Don't Stop Me!  Don't Stop Me! EP is an iTunes EP release by Yoko Ono. The album is also available in the form of a promotional-only compact disc, leading up to her album Between My Head and the Sky, released in September 2009. It features a remix of The Sun is Down! by Japanese musician Cornelius, who also features in the new Plastic Ono Band lineup on the upcoming album.
Yoko Ono  Between My Head and the Sky  Between My Head and the Sky is an album by Yoko Ono released on Chimera Music in September 2009. This is her first studio album to be released as Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band since 1973's Feeling the Space. The new Plastic Ono Band lineup features Cornelius, Yuka Honda and Ono's son Sean Lennon as band leader and producer.
小野 洋子  Between My Head and the Sky  Between My Head and the Sky is an album by Yoko Ono released on Chimera Music in September 2009. This is her first studio album to be released as Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band since 1973's Feeling the Space. The new Plastic Ono Band lineup features Cornelius, Yuka Honda and Ono's son Sean Lennon as band leader and producer.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Between My Head and the Sky  Between My Head and the Sky is an album by Yoko Ono released on Chimera Music in September 2009. This is her first studio album to be released as Yoko Ono/Plastic Ono Band since 1973's Feeling the Space. The new Plastic Ono Band lineup features Cornelius, Yuka Honda and Ono's son Sean Lennon as band leader and producer.
A.J. McLean  A. J. McLean  Alexander James Alex McLean, (born January 9, 1978), known as A.J. McLean, is an American musician and singer. He is a member of the Florida based vocal group, the Backstreet Boys.
A. J. Maclean  A. J. McLean  Alexander James Alex McLean, (born January 9, 1978), known as A.J. McLean, is an American musician and singer. He is a member of the Florida based vocal group, the Backstreet Boys.
Aaliyah  Aaliyah  Aaliyah Dana Haughton (January 16, 1979 – August 25, 2001), who performed under the mononym Aaliyah, was an American recording artist, actress and model. She was born in Brooklyn, New York, and was raised in Detroit, Michigan. At an early age, she appeared on the television show Star Search and performed in concert alongside Gladys Knight. At age 12, Aaliyah signed with Jive Records and Blackground Records by her uncle, Barry Hankerson. He introduced her to R. Kelly, who became her mentor, as well as lead songwriter and producer of her debut album, Age Ain't Nothing but a Number. The album sold three million copies in the United States and was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). After facing allegations of an illegal marriage with Kelly, Aaliyah ended her contract with Jive and signed to Atlantic Records. Aaliyah worked with record producers Timbaland and Missy Elliott for her second album, One in a Million; it sold 3.7 million copies in the United States and over eight million copies worldwide. In 2000, Aaliyah appeared in her first major film, Romeo Must Die. She contributed to the film's soundtrack, which spawned the single Try Again. The song topped the Billboard Hot 100 solely on airplay, making Aaliyah the first artist in Billboard history to achieve this feat. Try Again earned Aaliyah a Grammy Award nomination for Best Female R&amp;B Vocalist. After completing Romeo Must Die, Aaliyah filmed her part in Queen of the Damned. She released her third and final album, Aaliyah, in 2001. On August 25, 2001, Aaliyah and eight others were killed in an airplane crash in The Bahamas after filming the music video for the single Rock the Boat. The pilot, Luis Morales III, was unlicensed at the time of the accident and had traces of cocaine and alcohol in his system. Aaliyah's family later filed a wrongful death lawsuit against Blackhawk International Airways, which was settled out of court. Since then, Aaliyah's music has achieved commercial success with several posthumous releases. With album sales estimated to be between 24 to 32 million copies worldwide, Aaliyah has been credited for helping redefine R&amp;B and hip hop, earning her the nickname Princess of R&amp;B.
Aaron Carter  Aaron Carter  Aaron Charles Carter (born December 7, 1987) is an American singer. He is the younger brother of singer Nick Carter, from the boy band Backstreet Boys. He came to fame as a pop and hip hop singer in the late-1990s, establishing himself as a star among preteen and teenage audiences during the early-2000s. He has also launched an acting career.
Adam Noah Levine  Adam Levine  Adam Noah Levine (born March 18, 1979) is an American singer-songwriter and guitarist. He is the frontman for the pop rock band Maroon 5.
Adam Levine  Adam Levine  Adam Noah Levine (born March 18, 1979) is an American singer-songwriter and guitarist. He is the frontman for the pop rock band Maroon 5.
Akon  Akon  Akon (born Aliaune Badara Akon Thiam),, is a Senegalese-American R&amp;B singer-songwriter, rapper, record producer, businessman, and philanthropist. He grosses over 30 million dollars a year according to Forbes. He rose to prominence in 2004 following the release of Locked Up, the first single from his debut album Trouble. His second album, Konvicted, earned him a Grammy Award nomination of the single Smack That. He has since founded two record labels, Konvict Muzik and Kon Live Distribution. Akon often sings hooks for other artists and is currently accredited with over 300 guest appearances and 40 Billboard Hot 100 songs. He has worked with numerous performers such as Michael Jackson, R. Kelly, Quincy Jones, Eminem and Whitney Houston. He is the first solo artist to hold both the number one and two spots simultaneously on the Billboard Hot 100 charts twice. He has had 6 Grammy Awards nominations and has produced many hits for artists such as Lady Gaga, Colby O'Donis and Leona Lewis. Lady Gaga and T-Pain are two artists who were given their chance at fame by Akon. He has also released a song called Beautiful featuring Colby O'Donis and Kardinal Offishall which is in his hit album named Freedom which he released in 2008 and also Right Now (Na Na Na) in the same album.
Amaia Montero  Amaia Montero  Amaia Montero Saldías (born August 26, 1976), best known as the original vocalist of La Oreja de Van Gogh between 1996 and 2007, is a singer/songwriter from Basque Country, Spain. Including her work with the band, Montero has sold more than 7 million albums worldwide.
Amanda Somerville  Amanda Somerville  Amanda Somerville (born March 7, 1979) is an American singer-songwriter and vocal coach.
Ambra  Ambra Angiolini  Ambra Angiolini (born in Rome, 22 April 1977) has been an Italian showgirl and singer in the '90s. Nowadays she mainly works as an actress. Her career began in 1992, at the age of 15, when she took part in the second edition of Non è la Rai. Her first album T'appartengo was recorded in 1994. It included 10 songs. This album was also recorded in Spanish and contained a new song called Nel cuore, nell'anima. The Spanish production was titled Te pertenezco. As often happens with Italian singers, the main song 'Te pertenezco' (T'appartengo) was a success in Spain and other countries such as Colombia, Mexico, Venezuela and Chile. Due to this, Ambra Angiolini was invited to Viña del Mar song festival in 1996. In that same year, she recorded Angiolini, which contained ten tracks including Tu sei, Ti stravoglio, Buoni Amici and Aspettavo te (released in 1997 as We Can Break Away by the Belgian pop duo Indiana in an English adaptation by Michael Leahy). She continued recording until 1997, both in Italy and in Spain. Her last musical production In canto was released in 1999 but not in Spanish. It sold about 35,000 copies in Italy. She also continued her television hoster career in programs like Generazione X, Super, Non dimenticate lo spazzolino da denti, Cominciamo bene estate. In the 2000s she became an MTV hoster for programs like Stasera niente MTC. Ambra Angiolini is now an actress; she won the Nastro d'Argento, the David di Donatello and the Ciak d'oro alla rivelazione dell'anno for her role in Saturno contro (2007) directed by Ferzan Ozpetek. She starred in Bianco e Nero (2008) directed by Cristina Comencini.
Ana Stanić  Ana Stanić  Ana Stanić is a Serbian singer, songwriter, composer and film producer.
Ana Tijoux  Ana Tijoux  Anamaría Merino (born 1977), commonly known by her stage name Ana Tijoux, is a French-Chilean musician. She became famous in Latin America as the female MC of hip-hop group Makiza during the late 1990s. In 2006, she crossed over to the Latin mainstream pop due to her collaboration with Mexican songstress Julieta Venegas in the radio hit Eres para mí. She is currently promoting her second solo album, 1977. Tijoux is the daughter of Chilean parents living in political exile in France during Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship of Chile.
Ana Torroja  Ana Torroja  Ana Torroja (born December 28, 1959 in Madrid) is a Grammy Award-nominated Spanish singer. She is the lead singer of the pop trio Mecano, considered one of the most popular pop bands from Spain during 1980's and 90's. In 1998 Mecano separated, and she kept a solo career.
Andrea Bocelli  Andrea Bocelli  Andrea Bocelli, grande ufficiale omri (born 22 September 1958) is an Italian tenor, multi-instrumentalist and classical crossover artist. Born with poor eyesight, he became totally blind at the age of twelve following a soccer accident. Since winning the Newcomers section of the Sanremo Music Festival, in 1994, he has recorded fourteen studio albums, of both pop and classical music, two greatest hits albums, and eight complete operas, selling over 70 million copies worldwide. Thus, he is the biggest-selling solo artist in the history of classical music. In 1998, he was named one of People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. In 1999, his nomination for Best New Artist at the Grammy Awards marked the first time a classical artist had been nominated in the category, since Leontyne Price, in 1961. The Prayer, his duet with Celine Dion for the animated film, The Quest for Camelot, won the Golden Globe for Best Original Song and was nominated for an Academy Award in the same category. With the release of his classical album, Sacred Arias, Bocelli captured a listing in the Guinness Book of World Records, as he simultaneously held the top 3 positions on the U.S. classical albums charts. Five of his albums have since reached the Top 10 on the Billboard 200, and a record-setting 7, have topped the classical albums charts, in the United States. With over 5 million units sold worldwide, Sacred Arias became the biggest-selling classical album by a solo artist of all time, and with just under 20 million units sold worldwide, his 1997 pop album, Romanza, became the best-selling album by an Italian artist ever, as well as the best-selling album by a foreign artist in Canada, and a number of other countries in Europe and Latin America. The album's first single, Time to Say Goodbye, topped charts all over Europe, including Germany, where it stayed at the top of the charts for fourteen consecutive weeks, breaking the all-time sales record, with over 3 million copies sold in the country. He is widely regarded as the most popular Italian and classical singer in the world. In 2006, Bocelli was made a Grand Officer of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic, and on March 2, 2010, he was honoured with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, for his contribution to Live Theater.
Angela Vía  Angela Via  Angela Vía (born December 29, 1981 as Angela Jolena Trullinger Villarreal) is an American singer/songwriter from Texas. Initially marketed as a pop artist, Angela's catalog contains music of a variety of genres in both English and Spanish. While she was scheduled to release an album in 2009, it is currently unknown when her next work will be released as she is shopping for a record label.
Aya Ueto  Aya Ueto  is a Japanese actress, singer, idol, and tarento. Born in Nerima, Tokyo, Ueto was discovered when she participated in the 7th All-Japan National Young Beauty Contest, where she won the Judges' Special Choice Prize. She made her acting debut at the age of thirteen in the film Satsujinsha Killer of Paraiso and in 1999, she and fellow participants of the Young Beauty Contest Mami Nejiki, Mai Fujiya, and Manami Nishiwaki formed the unsuccessful girl group Z-1. In 2002, after their disbandment, Ueto continued her music career as a solo singer under the label Pony Canyon, where she debuted with the single Pureness. Ueto's breakthrough came when she was cast as a girl suffering from gender identity disorder in the sixth series of the TBS drama 3 nen B gumi Kinpachi-sensei. Her critically-acclaimed performance led to several leading roles in dramas and TV endorsements, eventually establishing her as one of Japan's most recognizable faces. She has also ventured onto the big screen in famed film director Ryuhei Kitamura's 2003 blockbuster Azumi and its sequel, Azumi 2: Death or Love in 2005. As one of Japan's most ubiquitous celebrities, Ueto constantly appears on billboards, shop windows and train adverts.
上戸 彩  Aya Ueto  is a Japanese actress, singer, idol, and tarento. Born in Nerima, Tokyo, Ueto was discovered when she participated in the 7th All-Japan National Young Beauty Contest, where she won the Judges' Special Choice Prize. She made her acting debut at the age of thirteen in the film Satsujinsha Killer of Paraiso and in 1999, she and fellow participants of the Young Beauty Contest Mami Nejiki, Mai Fujiya, and Manami Nishiwaki formed the unsuccessful girl group Z-1. In 2002, after their disbandment, Ueto continued her music career as a solo singer under the label Pony Canyon, where she debuted with the single Pureness. Ueto's breakthrough came when she was cast as a girl suffering from gender identity disorder in the sixth series of the TBS drama 3 nen B gumi Kinpachi-sensei. Her critically-acclaimed performance led to several leading roles in dramas and TV endorsements, eventually establishing her as one of Japan's most recognizable faces. She has also ventured onto the big screen in famed film director Ryuhei Kitamura's 2003 blockbuster Azumi and its sequel, Azumi 2: Death or Love in 2005. As one of Japan's most ubiquitous celebrities, Ueto constantly appears on billboards, shop windows and train adverts.
Ayumi Hamasaki  Ayumi Hamasaki  and former actress. Also called Ayu by her fans, Hamasaki has been dubbed the Empress of Pop because of her popularity and widespread influence in Japan. Born and raised in Fukuoka, she moved to Tokyo at fourteen to pursue a career in entertainment. In 1998, under the tutelage of Avex CEO Max Matsuura, she released a string of modestly selling singles that concluded with her 1999 debut album A Song for ××. The album debuted atop the Oricon charts and stayed there for four weeks, establishing her popularity in Japan. Her constantly changing image and tight control over her artistry has meant that Hamasaki's popularity extends across Asia; music and fashion trends she has started have spread to countries such as China, Singapore, and Taiwan. She has appeared in or lent her songs to many advertisements and television commercials. Though she originally supported the exploitation of her popularity for commercial purposes, she later reconsidered and eventually opposed her status as an Avex product. Since her 1998 debut with the single Poker Face, Hamasaki has sold over 50 million records in Japan, ranking her among the best-selling singers in the country. As a female singer, Hamasaki holds several domestic records for her singles, such as the most number-one hits overall by a female artist, the most consecutive number-one hits (also by a female artist), the highest sales, and the most million-sellers. Since 1999, Hamasaki has had at least one single each year top the charts. Hamasaki is the first female singer to have eight studio albums since her debut to top the Oricon
Barry Hay  Barry Hay  Barry Andrew Hay (born August 16, 1948) is the vocalist/frontman for Dutch rock band Golden Earring.
Bette Midler  Bette Midler  Bette Midler (born December 1, 1945) is an American singer, actress and comedian, also known (by her informal stage name) as The Divine Miss M. She has starred in live-action films such as Ruthless People, Beaches and Hocus Pocus, as well as featuring in animated films such as Oliver &amp; Company and Fantasia 2000. During her more than forty-year career, Midler has been nominated for two Academy Awards; and won three Grammy Awards, four Golden Globes, three Emmy Awards, and a special Tony Award.
Beverley Craven  Beverley Craven  Beverley Craven is a British singer-songwriter best known for her 1991 UK Top 5 hit single Promise Me. Her most recent album, Close To Home, was released in 2009. Craven has sold over 4 million records in her career.
Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé Knowles  Beyoncé Giselle Knowles (born September 4, 1981), often known simply as Beyoncé, is an American Pop/R&amp;B singer, songwriter, actress and fashion designer. Born and raised in Houston, Texas, she enrolled in various performing arts schools and was first exposed to singing and dancing competitions as a child. Knowles rose to fame in the late 1990s as the lead singer of the R&amp;B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the world's best-selling girl groups of all time. During the hiatus of Destiny's Child, Knowles released her debut solo album Dangerously in Love (2003), which spawned the number one hits Crazy in Love and Baby Boy and became one of the most successful albums of that year, earning her a then record-tying five Grammy Awards. Following the group's disbandment in 2005, Knowles released B'Day in 2006. It debuted at number one on the Billboard charts and included the hits Déjà Vu, Irreplaceable and Beautiful Liar. Her third solo album I Am... Sasha Fierce, released in November 2008, included the anthemic Single Ladies (Put a Ring on It). The album and its singles earned her six Grammy Awards, breaking the record for most Grammy Awards won by a female artist in one night. Knowles is one of the most honored artists by the Grammys, and third among female artists, with 16 awards—13 as a solo artist and three as a member of Destiny's Child. Knowles began her acting career in 2001, appearing in the musical film Carmen: A Hip Hopera. In 2006, she starred in the lead role in the film adaptation of the 1981 Broadway musical Dreamgirls, for which she earned two Golden Globe nominations. Knowles launched her family's fashion line, House of Deréon, in 2004, and has endorsed such brands as Pepsi, Tommy Hilfiger, Armani and L'Oréal. In 2010, Forbes ranked Knowles at number two on its list of the 100 Most Powerful and Influential Celebrities in the world; she was also listed as the most powerful and influential musician in the world. Time also included Knowles on its list of the 100 Most Influential People in the World. Knowles has attained five Hot 100 number one singles as a solo performer and four with Destiny's Child. As a solo artist, Beyonce has sold over 11.2 million albums and nearly 25 million singles in the United States. According to Sony, her total album and single sales, when combined with the group, have surpassed 100 million. On December 11, 2009, Billboard listed Knowles as the most successful female artist of the 2000s decade and the top Radio Artist of the decade. In February 2010, the RIAA listed her as the top certified artist of the decade. In 2010, VH1 listed Knowles at number 52 on its list of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time.
Biagio Antonacci  Biagio Antonacci  Biagio Antonacci (born 9 November 1963) is an Italian cantautore, or a singer-songwriter, from Milan.
Bill Kaulitz  Bill Kaulitz  Bill Kaulitz is a German singer, songwriter, voice actor, designer and model. He is best known for his work from 2001 to the present as the lead singer of the band Tokio Hotel.
Billie Myers  Billie Myers  Billie Myers is an English rock singer-songwriter. She is best known for her 1998 transatlantic hit, Kiss the Rain.
Billy Crawford  Billy Crawford  Billy Crawford (born William Joe Crawford on May 16, 1982) is a Filipino-American musician and actor with musical influences from R&amp;B, pop, and soul. Crawford became known in Europe and Asia with song titles such as Trackin', When You Think About Me, Never My Love, Steamy Nights and Bright Lights. Crawford is multilingual, being fluent in two Philippine languages, his native Tagalog as well as Cebuano. His second language is English and he is conversational in French. Crawford not only lived in New York City, USA, but also in Paris for five years and for one year in London. He currently resides in Los Angeles as of 2007. In 2008, he went to Manila to host Pinoy Dream Academy's uberture. He has also hosted the prestigious Miss Earth 2008 held in the Philippines. He is now a talent of ABS-CBN and was seen in Pilipinas Got Talent as one of the two main host together with Luis Manzano.
Billy Joel  Billy Joel  William Martin Billy Joel (born May 9, 1949) is an American musician and pianist, singer-songwriter, and classical composer. Since releasing his first hit song, Piano Man, in 1973, Joel has become the sixth best-selling recording artist and the third best-selling solo artist in the United States, according to the RIAA. Joel had Top 40 hits in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s; achieving 33 Top 40 hits in the United States, all of which he wrote singlehandedly. He is also a six-time Grammy Award winner, a 23-time Grammy nominee and has sold over 100 million records worldwide. He was inducted into the Songwriter's Hall of Fame (1992), the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (1999), the Long Island Music Hall of Fame (2006) and the Hit Parade Hall of Fame (2009). Joel retired from recording pop music in 1993 but continues to tour. In 2001, he released Fantasies &amp; Delusions, a CD of classical compositions for piano. In 2007, he briefly returned to pop songwriting and recording with a single entitled All My Life – written for his third wife Katie Lee Joel. In September 2007, Joel wrote Christmas in Fallujah, a tribute to soldiers and a grim depiction of war. The song was recorded by Cass Dillon and subsequently by Joel himself in a December 2008 live version that was released only in Australia. Joel returned to touring in 2006 after a three-year hiatus from the road and has toured extensively ever since, covering many major world cities. In March 2009, Joel resumed his popular Face to Face tour with fellow pianist Elton John. The tour ended in March 2010 and there are currently no more dates scheduled, although Joel, who has stated a desire to take the rest of 2010 off, told Rolling Stone magazine: We’ll probably pick it up again. It’s always fun playing with him.
Boy George  Boy George  Boy George (born George Alan O'Dowd on 14 June 1961) is a British singer-songwriter who was part of the English New Romantic movement which emerged in the early 1980s. He helped give androgyny an international stage with the success of Culture Club during the 1980s. His music is often classified as blue-eyed soul, which is influenced by rhythm and blues and reggae. His 1990s and 2000s-era solo music has glam influences such as David Bowie and Iggy Pop. He also founded and was lead singer of Jesus Loves You during the period 1989–1992. Being involved in many activities (among them songwriting, DJing, writing books, designing clothes and photography), he has released fewer music recordings in the last decade. On 11 May 2009, Boy George was released from prison at HMP Edmunds Hill in Newmarket, Suffolk, four months into a fifteen-month sentence for the assault and false imprisonment of a male escort, in his East London flat. He was tagged and placed on a curfew for the balance of the sentence. In December 2009, Boy George had a successful run of concerts at the Leicester Square Theatre in London's West End.
Brian Littrell  Brian Littrell  Brian Thomas Littrell (born February 20, 1975) is an American singer-songwriter, best known as a member of the Backstreet Boys. In the late 1990s and early 2000s his participation in the Backstreet Boys catapulted him into super-stardom as the band sold over 100 million records worldwide. He is also a contemporary Christian recording artist and released a solo album, Welcome Home, in 2006. Littrell was also a judge for the 8th annual Independent Music Awards to support independent artists' careers.
Britney Spears  Britney Spears  Britney Jean Spears (born December 2, 1981) is an American recording artist and entertainer. Born in McComb, Mississippi and raised in Kentwood, Louisiana, Spears began performing as a child, landing acting roles in stage productions and television shows. She signed with Jive Records in 1997 and released her debut album in 1999. During her first decade within the music industry, she became a prominent figure in mainstream popular music and popular culture, followed by a much-publicized personal life. Her first two albums established her as a pop icon and broke sales records, while title tracks ... Baby One More Time and Oops!... I Did It Again became international number-one hits. Spears was credited with influencing the revival of teen pop during the late 1990s. In 2001, she released her third studio album Britney and expanded her brand, playing the starring role in the film Crossroads. She assumed creative control of her fourth studio album, In the Zone released in 2003, which yielded chart-topping singles Me Against the Music, Toxic and Everytime. After the release of two compilation albums, Spears experienced personal struggles and career went under hiatus. Her fifth studio album, Blackout, was released in 2007 and despite receiving little promotion, it spawned hits Gimme More and Piece of Me. In 2008, her erratic behaviour and hospitalizations caused her to be placed in a conservatorship. The same year, her sixth studio album Circus was released, with the global chart-topping lead single Womanizer. After embarking on The Circus Starring Britney Spears, she released greatest hits The Singles Collection, which featured U.S. and Canadian number-one single 3. Spears has sold more than 100 million records worldwide, becoming one of the best-selling music artists. According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she is the eighth top-selling female artist in the United States, with 32 million certified albums. Spears is also recognized as the best-selling female artist of the 2000s, as well as the fifth overall. She was ranked the 8th Artist of the 2000–10 decade by Billboard. In June 2010, Spears was ranked sixth on Forbes list of the 100 Most Powerful and Influential celebrities in the world; she is also ranked as the third most powerful musician in the world.
Carly Smithson  Carly Smithson  Carly Smithson (born September 12, 1983 as Carly Sarah Hennessy) is an Irish soul/pop rock singer-songwriter from San Diego, California who was the sixth place finalist on the seventh season of American Idol. In 2001, Smithson released her first studio album for MCA Records called Ultimate High. Smithson was dropped from the record label in 2002. Plans for her post-Idol solo album have been scrapped and instead she is now the lead singer of We Are the Fallen.
Céline Dion  Celine Dion  Céline Marie Claudette Dion CC, OQ (born March 30, 1968) is a Canadian pop singer, songwriter, actress, and entrepreneur. Born to a large, impoverished family in Charlemagne, Quebec, Dion emerged as a teen star in the French-speaking world after her manager and future husband René Angélil mortgaged his home to finance her first record. In 1990, she released the anglophone album Unison, establishing herself as a viable pop artist in North America and other English-speaking areas of the world. Dion had first gained international recognition in the 1980s by winning both the 1982 Yamaha World Popular Song Festival and the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest. Following a series of French albums in the early 1980s, she signed on to CBS Records Canada in 1986. During the 1990s, with the help of Angélil, she achieved worldwide fame after signing with Epic Records and releasing several English albums along with additional French albums, becoming one of the most successful artists in pop music history. However, in 1999 at the height of her success, Dion announced a hiatus from entertainment in order to start a family and spend time with her husband, who had been diagnosed with cancer. She returned to the top of pop music in 2002 and signed a three-year (later extended to almost five years) contract to perform nightly in a five-star theatrical show at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, Las Vegas. Dion's music has been influenced by genres ranging from rock and R&amp;B to gospel and classical. While her releases have often received mixed critical reception, she is renowned for her technically skilled and powerful vocals. Dion is the best-selling Canadian artist of all time, and is the second best-selling female artist in the United States of the Nielsen SoundScan era. In addition, her 1995 album D'eux, is the best-selling French-language album of all time. She is also the only female artist to have two million-selling singles in the United Kingdom. In 2004, after surpassing 175 million in album sales worldwide, she was presented with the Chopard Diamond Award at the World Music Awards for becoming the best-selling female artist of all time. According to Sony Music Entertainment, Dion has sold over 200 million albums, worldwide.
Dion, Céline Marie Claudette, OC, OQ  Celine Dion  Céline Marie Claudette Dion CC, OQ (born March 30, 1968) is a Canadian pop singer, songwriter, actress, and entrepreneur. Born to a large, impoverished family in Charlemagne, Quebec, Dion emerged as a teen star in the French-speaking world after her manager and future husband René Angélil mortgaged his home to finance her first record. In 1990, she released the anglophone album Unison, establishing herself as a viable pop artist in North America and other English-speaking areas of the world. Dion had first gained international recognition in the 1980s by winning both the 1982 Yamaha World Popular Song Festival and the 1988 Eurovision Song Contest. Following a series of French albums in the early 1980s, she signed on to CBS Records Canada in 1986. During the 1990s, with the help of Angélil, she achieved worldwide fame after signing with Epic Records and releasing several English albums along with additional French albums, becoming one of the most successful artists in pop music history. However, in 1999 at the height of her success, Dion announced a hiatus from entertainment in order to start a family and spend time with her husband, who had been diagnosed with cancer. She returned to the top of pop music in 2002 and signed a three-year (later extended to almost five years) contract to perform nightly in a five-star theatrical show at the Colosseum at Caesars Palace, Las Vegas. Dion's music has been influenced by genres ranging from rock and R&amp;B to gospel and classical. While her releases have often received mixed critical reception, she is renowned for her technically skilled and powerful vocals. Dion is the best-selling Canadian artist of all time, and is the second best-selling female artist in the United States of the Nielsen SoundScan era. In addition, her 1995 album D'eux, is the best-selling French-language album of all time. She is also the only female artist to have two million-selling singles in the United Kingdom. In 2004, after surpassing 175 million in album sales worldwide, she was presented with the Chopard Diamond Award at the World Music Awards for becoming the best-selling female artist of all time. According to Sony Music Entertainment, Dion has sold over 200 million albums, worldwide.
Charles Aznavour  Charles Aznavour  Charles Aznavour OC, (born Shahnour Vaghenag Aznavourian, May 22, 1924, Paris) is a French-Armenian singer, songwriter, actor, public activist and diplomat. Besides being one of France's most popular and enduring singers, he is also one of the best-known singers in the world. Aznavour is known for his characteristic short figure and unique tenor voice; clear and ringing in its upper reaches, with gravelly and profound low notes. He has appeared in more than 60 movies, composed about 1,000 songs (including 150 at least in English, 100 in Italian, 70 in Spanish, and 50 in German), and has sold well over 100 million records. In 1998, Charles Aznavour was named Entertainer of the Century by CNN and users of Time Online from around the globe. He was recognized as the century's outstanding performer, with nearly 18% of the total vote, edging out Elvis Presley and Bob Dylan. He has sung for presidents, popes, and royalty, as well as at humanitarian events, and is the founder of the charitable organization Aznavour for Armenia along with his long-time friend and impresario Levon Sayan. Aznavour started his global farewell tour in late 2006, which continues through this day. In 2009 he was appointed ambassador of Armenia to Switzerland, as well as Armenia's permanent delegate to the United Nations at Geneva.
Charlotte Church  Charlotte Church  Charlotte Church (born Charlotte Maria Reed; 21 February 1986) is a Welsh singer-songwriter, actress and television presenter. She rose to fame in childhood as a classical singer before branching into pop music in 2005. By 2007, she had sold more than 11,000,000 albums worldwide and in 2010 was said to be worth as much as £11m (though one 2003 report had her worth £25m). She recently hosted the third series of her Channel 4 chat show The Charlotte Church Show. Church will release her first album in 5 years Back To Scratch on 25 October 2010.
Cher  Cher  Cher (born Cherilyn Sarkisian on May 20, 1946) is an American recording artist, actress, director and record producer. Referred to as the Goddess of Pop, she has won an Academy Award, a Grammy Award, an Emmy Award, three Golden Globes, a Cannes Film Festival Award and a People's Choice Award for her work in film, music and television. Cher began her career as a backup singer and later came to prominence as one half of the pop rock duo Sonny &amp; Cher with the success of their song I Got You Babe in 1965. She subsequently established herself as a solo recording artist, and became a television star in 1971 with The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour, a variety show for which she won a Golden Globe. A well received performance in the film Silkwood earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress in 1984. In the following years, Cher starred in a string of hit films including Mask, The Witches of Eastwick, and Moonstruck, for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress in 1988. Cher is the only female solo artist to reach the Top Ten of the Billboard Hot 100 in each of the previous four decades. Her hit dance single Believe
Chris Cornell  Chris Cornell  Chris Cornell (born Christopher John Boyle; July 20, 1964) is an American rock musician best known as the lead vocalist for Soundgarden. He is also known as the former lead vocalist for Audioslave and for his numerous solo works and soundtrack contributions since 1998. He is known for his wide four-octave vocal range, and powerful vocal belting technique. He was the founder and frontman for Temple of the Dog, the one-off tribute band dedicated to his former roommate, Andrew Wood. He has released three solo studio albums, Euphoria Morning (1999), Carry On (2007), and Scream (2009). Cornell was ranked 4th in the list of Heavy Metal's All-Time Top 100 Vocalists by Hit Parader. He performed the theme song to the James Bond film Casino Royale (2006), You Know My Name.
Chris Kirkpatrick  Chris Kirkpatrick  Christopher Alan Chris Kirkpatrick (born October 17, 1971) is an American singer, dancer, entertainer, and voice actor who is best known as a founding member of the pop group 'N Sync in which he sang counter tenor.
Christina Aguilera  Christina Aguilera  Christina María Aguilera (in English; born December 18, 1980) is an American pop singer, songwriter, dancer and actress. Aguilera first appeared on national television in 1990 as a contestant on the Star Search program, and went on to star in Disney Channel's television series The Mickey Mouse Club from 1993–1994. Aguilera signed to RCA Records after recording Reflection for the film Mulan. In 1999, Aguilera came to prominence following her debut album Christina Aguilera, which was a commercial success spawning three number one singles on the Billboard Hot 100—Genie in a Bottle, What a Girl Wants, and Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You).  A Latin pop album, Mi Reflejo (2001), and several collaborations followed which garnered Aguilera worldwide success, though she was displeased with her lack of input in her music and image. After parting from her management, Aguilera took creative control over her second studio album, Stripped (2002). The album's second single, Beautiful, was a commercial success and helped the album's commercial performance. Aguilera followed up Stripped with Back to Basics (2006), which was released to positive critical acclaim and included elements of soul, jazz, and blues music. Aguilera's fourth studio album Bionic (2010) was met with mixed reviews and poor sales. Aside from being known for her vocal ability, music videos and image, musically, she includes themes of dealing with public scrutiny, her childhood, and female empowerment in her music. Apart from her work in music, she has also dedicated much of her time as a philanthropist for charities, human rights and world issues. Aguilera's work has earned her numerous awards, including four Grammy Awards and a Latin Grammy Award, amongst fifteen and three nominations respectively. Rolling Stone ranked her number fifty-eight on their list of the 100 Greatest Singers of All Time, ranking as the youngest and only artist on the list under the age of thirty. Also she has ranked the 20th Artist of the Decade by Billboard. She has become one of the most successful recording artists of the decade, selling more than 42 million albums worldwide.
Cris Bonacci  Cris Bonacci  Christine Cris Bonacci is an Australian-born producer, songwriter and musician.
Cyndi Lauper  Cyndi Lauper  Cynthia Ann Stephanie Cyndi Lauper (born June 22, 1953) is an American singer-songwriter and actress. She achieved success in the mid-1980s with the release of the album She's So Unusual and became the first female singer to have four top-five singles released from one album. Lauper has released 11 albums and over 40 singles, and as of 2008 had sold more than 30 million records worldwide.
Dane Bowers  Dane Bowers  Dane Bowers (born 28 November 1979) is an English pop singer, songwriter, DJ and record producer. He was a part of the R&amp;B boyband, Another Level between 1997 and 2000 when he performed on seven Top 10 singles. He then went on to perform solo projects, working with Truesteppers and Victoria Beckham and has made TV appearances on Celebrity Big Brother and Celebrity Come Dine With Me.
Dannii Minogue  Dannii Minogue  Danielle Jane Dannii Minogue (born 20 October 1971) is an Australian singer, songwriter, actress, television personality, radio personality, fashion designer and model. Minogue rose to prominence in the early 1980s for her roles in the Australian television talent show Young Talent Time and the soap opera Home and Away, before commencing her career as a pop singer in the early 1990s. Minogue achieved early success with hits such as Love and Kisses and This is It, though by the release of her second album, her popularity as a singer had declined, leading her to concentrate on other fields such as television presenting. The late 1990s saw a brief return to music after Minogue reinvented herself as a dance artist with All I Wanna Do, her first number one UK Club hit. In 2001, Minogue further returned to musical success with the release of her biggest worldwide hit to date, Who Do You Love Now?, while her subsequent album, Neon Nights, became the most successful of her career. In the UK, she has achieved twelve consecutive number one dance singles, becoming the best-performing artist on the UK Upfront Club Chart. As a recording artist Minogue has sold over 7 Million Records worldwide.
Danielle Jane Minogue  Dannii Minogue  Danielle Jane Dannii Minogue (born 20 October 1971) is an Australian singer, songwriter, actress, television personality, radio personality, fashion designer and model. Minogue rose to prominence in the early 1980s for her roles in the Australian television talent show Young Talent Time and the soap opera Home and Away, before commencing her career as a pop singer in the early 1990s. Minogue achieved early success with hits such as Love and Kisses and This is It, though by the release of her second album, her popularity as a singer had declined, leading her to concentrate on other fields such as television presenting. The late 1990s saw a brief return to music after Minogue reinvented herself as a dance artist with All I Wanna Do, her first number one UK Club hit. In 2001, Minogue further returned to musical success with the release of her biggest worldwide hit to date, Who Do You Love Now?, while her subsequent album, Neon Nights, became the most successful of her career. In the UK, she has achieved twelve consecutive number one dance singles, becoming the best-performing artist on the UK Upfront Club Chart. As a recording artist Minogue has sold over 7 Million Records worldwide.
Debbie Harry  Debbie Harry  Deborah Ann Debbie Harry (born July 1, 1945) is an American singer-songwriter and actress, most famous for being the lead singer for the New Wave band Blondie. She has also had success as a solo artist, and in the mid-1990s she performed and recorded as part of The Jazz Passengers. Her acting career spans over thirty film roles and numerous television appearances.
Dido  Dido (singer)  Dido Florian Cloud de Bounevialle O'Malley Armstrong (born 25 December 1971), known mononymously as Dido, is an English singer-songwriter. Following the sampling of her single Thank You on Eminem's 2000 hit, Stan, Dido shot to worldwide success with her debut album, No Angel (1999). The album sold in excess of 21 million copies worldwide, and won several awards; including the MTV Europe Music Award for Best New Act, two NRJ Awards for Best New Act and Best Album, and two BRIT Awards for Best British Female and Best Album. Her following album, Life for Rent (2003), continued her mainstream success with the help of popular singles White Flag and Life for Rent. The album went on to sell around 12 million copies worldwide and saw her receive more accolades; including the Ivor Novello Award for Songwriter of the Year for White Flag, two further BRIT and NRJ Awards, as well as a Grammy Award nomination. Her third and latest studio album, Safe Trip Home
Dieter Bohlen  Dieter Bohlen  Dieter Bohlen is a German musician, songwriter, entertainer, TV personality, producer and writer. Bohlen is best known for being part of popular pop-duo Modern Talking during 1984–1987 and 1998–2003.
Don Henley  Don Henley  Donald Hugh Don Henley is an American musician, singer, songwriter and drummer, best known as a founding member of the Eagles before launching a successful seven time Grammy Award-winning solo career. His solo hits include Dirty Laundry, The Boys of Summer, All She Wants to Do Is Dance, and The End of the Innocence. In 2008, he was ranked the 87th greatest singer of all time by Rolling Stone magazine. Henley has also played a founding role in several environmental and political causes, most notably the Walden Woods Project. Since 1994, he has divided his musical activities between the Eagles and his solo career.
Elena Paparizou  Elena Paparizou  Eleni Elena Paparizou (born 31 January 1982), usually referred to abroad as Helena Paparizou, is a Greek singer and occasional songwriter, who was born and raised in Sweden. She began her career there in 1999 as a member of the duo Antique, while she also worked briefly as a model for a Swedish-Greek brand. After rising to recognition in Greece following its participation in the Eurovision Song Contest 2001, the group based the remainder of its career there until Paparizou embarked on a solo career in 2003 and released her debut album Protereotita (2004), with emphasis on more pop sounds in addition to laïko. In 2005 she won the Eurovision Song Contest for Greece for the first time in the contest's history, with the song My Number One, significantly contributing to her career. Following the victory, her album peaked at number one one the Greek Albums Chart and was certified double platinum by the Internional Federation of the Phonographic Industry of Greece, while she also briefly attempted a career beyond Greece with English-language material, charting in a few countries abroad. Her three subsequent albums Iparhi Logos (2006), The Game of Love (2006) and Vrisko To Logo Na Zo (2008) all peaked at number one in Greece and reached Platinum sales. Her fifth studio album, Giro Apo T' Oneiro, was released in March 2010. Paparizou has also won three Arion Music Awards, a European Border Breakers Award, 15 MAD Video Music Awards&mdash;more than any other artist&mdash; and an MTV Europe Music Award. On 14 March 2010, prior to the release of her fifth album, Alpha TV ranked her as the 14th top certified female artist in the 50 year history of the nation's phonographic industry on its list of the 30 Most Popular Greek Female Artists, totaling seven Platinum and four Gold records. Paparizou was the most successful debuting female artist of the 2000s and established herself as one of the top pop artists of the latter half of the decade. As of 2010, she has been certified for the sales of at least 170 thousand albums, 50 thousand physical singles, and 30 thousand digital singles in Greece, 24 thousand albums in Cyprus, and 20 thousand singles in Sweden during her solo career, in addition to over 100 thousand total record sales in Greece as part of Antique.
Έλενα Παπαρίζου  Elena Paparizou  Eleni Elena Paparizou (born 31 January 1982), usually referred to abroad as Helena Paparizou, is a Greek singer and occasional songwriter, who was born and raised in Sweden. She began her career there in 1999 as a member of the duo Antique, while she also worked briefly as a model for a Swedish-Greek brand. After rising to recognition in Greece following its participation in the Eurovision Song Contest 2001, the group based the remainder of its career there until Paparizou embarked on a solo career in 2003 and released her debut album Protereotita (2004), with emphasis on more pop sounds in addition to laïko. In 2005 she won the Eurovision Song Contest for Greece for the first time in the contest's history, with the song My Number One, significantly contributing to her career. Following the victory, her album peaked at number one one the Greek Albums Chart and was certified double platinum by the Internional Federation of the Phonographic Industry of Greece, while she also briefly attempted a career beyond Greece with English-language material, charting in a few countries abroad. Her three subsequent albums Iparhi Logos (2006), The Game of Love (2006) and Vrisko To Logo Na Zo (2008) all peaked at number one in Greece and reached Platinum sales. Her fifth studio album, Giro Apo T' Oneiro, was released in March 2010. Paparizou has also won three Arion Music Awards, a European Border Breakers Award, 15 MAD Video Music Awards&mdash;more than any other artist&mdash; and an MTV Europe Music Award. On 14 March 2010, prior to the release of her fifth album, Alpha TV ranked her as the 14th top certified female artist in the 50 year history of the nation's phonographic industry on its list of the 30 Most Popular Greek Female Artists, totaling seven Platinum and four Gold records. Paparizou was the most successful debuting female artist of the 2000s and established herself as one of the top pop artists of the latter half of the decade. As of 2010, she has been certified for the sales of at least 170 thousand albums, 50 thousand physical singles, and 30 thousand digital singles in Greece, 24 thousand albums in Cyprus, and 20 thousand singles in Sweden during her solo career, in addition to over 100 thousand total record sales in Greece as part of Antique.
Emma Bunton  Emma Bunton  Emma Lee Bunton (born 21 January 1976) is an English pop singer-songwriter and actress. She was a member of the 1990s girl group, the Spice Girls, in which she was known as Baby Spice as she was the youngest member. In 2010 she joined the judging panel on ITV's Dancing On Ice and is the host of Channel 5's Don't Stop Believing
Fergie  Fergie (singer)  Stacy Ann Ferguson (born March 27, 1975), better known by her stage name Fergie, is an American singer-songwriter, rapper, fashion designer and actress. She was a member of the children's television series Kids Incorporated, and the girl group Wild Orchid. She is the female vocalist for the hip hop group the The Black Eyed Peas with whom she has attained much charting success worldwide. Her own debut album spawned four Billboard Hot 100 top five singles, three of which went to number one. Having left Wild Orchid in 2001, Ferguson joined The Black Eyed Peas. With The Black Eyed Peas, she enjoyed a series of hits and albums before releasing her debut album, The Dutchess, in September 2006 to similar success. Ferguson married actor Josh Duhamel in early 2009 after five years of dating. The Black Eyed Peas would enjoy further success with the release of their third album with Ferguson, they attained their first string of Billboard Hot 100 number one songs.
George Michael  George Michael  George Michael (born Georgios Kyriacos Panayiotou; June 25, 1963) is an English singer-songwriter who rose to fame in the 1980s when he formed the pop duo Wham! along with his school friend Andrew Ridgeley. His first solo single, Careless Whisper was released when he was still in the duo and sold about six million copies worldwide. As one of the world's best-selling music artists, Michael has sold over 100 million records worldwide as of 2010, encompassing 7 UK #1 singles, 7 UK #1 albums, 8 U. S #1 singles, and 1 U. S #1 album. His 1987 debut solo album, Faith has sold over 20 million copies worldwide and made several records and achievements in the United States. In 2004, Radio Academy named Michael as the most played artist on British radio between the period of 1984–2004. The documentary A Different Story was released in 2005; it covered his personal life and professional career. In 2006, George Michael announced his first tour in 15 years. 25 Live tour was a massive, worldwide undertaking by Michael that spanned three individual tours over the course of three years (2006, 2007, and 2008).
Geri Halliwell  Geri Halliwell  Geraldine Estelle Geri Halliwell (born 6 August 1972) is an English pop singer-songwriter, author, actress and philanthropist. After coming to international prominence as a member of the girl group, the Spice Girls, Halliwell launched her solo career and released her debut album Schizophonic. Since then she has released two more studio albums — Scream If You Wanna Go Faster and Passion — and four number one singles at the UK Singles Chart, Mi Chico Latino, Lift Me Up, Bag It Up and It's Raining Men. In 2008 Halliwell published a book series named Ugenia Lavender. As a solo artist Halliwell has sold 12 million records worldwide and been nominated for Brit Awards in both 2000 and 2002.
Glenn Frey  Glenn Frey  Glenn Lewis Frey (pronounced Fry; born November 6, 1948) is an American musician, singer, songwriter, and actor, best known as a founding member of the Eagles.
Gloria Estefan  Gloria Estefan  Gloria María Milagrosa Fajardo García de Estefan; known professionally as Gloria Estefan (born September 1, 1957) is a Cuban American singer, songwriter and actress. She is in the top 100 best selling music artists with over 90 million albums sold worldwide, 26.5 million of those in the United States alone. She has won seven Grammy Awards, she is the most successful crossover performer in Latin music to date.
Grace Jones  Grace Jones  Grace Jones (born May 19, 1948) is a Jamaican-American singer, model and actress. The contralto singer has the range to move into an almost-soprano mode in some songs. Jones secured a record deal with Island Records in 1977, which resulted in a string of dance-club hits and a large gay following. In the late 1970s, Jones adapted the emerging New Wave music style and adopted a severe, androgynous, with square-cut hair and angular, padded clothes. In 1981, her Pull Up to the Bumper
Graham Bonnet  Graham Bonnet  Graham Bonnet (born 23 December 1947) is an English rock vocalist, and songwriter. He has recorded and performed as a solo artist, and as a member of several hard rock and heavy metal bands including Rainbow, the Michael Schenker Group, Alcatrazz, and Impellitteri.
Gwen Stefani  Gwen Stefani  Gwen Renée Stefani (born October 3, 1969) is an American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and fashion designer. Stefani is the lead vocalist for the rock band No Doubt. Stefani recorded her first solo album Love. Angel. Music. Baby. in 2004. The album was primarily inspired by music of the 1980s, and emerged a success with sales of seven million. The album's third single Hollaback Girl was the first U.S. digital download to sell one million copies. Stefani's second solo album, The Sweet Escape (2006), yielded Wind It Up, 4 in the Morning and the highest-selling single The Sweet Escape. Including her work with No Doubt, Stefani has sold more than 40 million albums worldwide. She won the World's Best-Selling New Female Artist at the World Music Awards 2005. In 2003, she debuted her clothing line L.A.M.B. and expanded her collection with the 2005 Harajuku Lovers line, drawing inspiration from Japanese culture and fashion. Stefani performs and makes public appearances with four back-up dancers known as the Harajuku Girls dancers. She married British grunge musician Gavin Rossdale in 2002 and they have two sons: Kingston James McGregor Rossdale, who was born May 26, 2006, and Zuma Nesta Rock Rossdale, who was born August 20, 2008. Billboard magazine named Stefani thirty-seventh Hot 100 artist of the decade.
Hélène Ségara  Hélène Ségara  Hélène Ségara (born Hélène Rizzo on 26 February 1971 in Six-Fours-les-Plages, Var) is a French female singer.
Helene Segara  Hélène Ségara  Hélène Ségara (born Hélène Rizzo on 26 February 1971 in Six-Fours-les-Plages, Var) is a French female singer.
Howard Jones  Howard Jones (musician)  Howard Jones (born John Howard Jones, 23 February 1955, Southampton, Hampshire, England) is an English musician. According to the Guinness Book of British Hit Singles &amp; Albums, Jones is an accomplished singer-songwriter who was a regular chart visitor in the mid 1980s with his brand of synthpop. Jones, who was equally popular in the U.S. , appeared at Live Aid. Allmusic journalist, Stephen Thomas Erlewine adds, Jones was one of the defining figures of mid 1980s synthpop. His music merged the technology intensive sound of new wave with the cheery optimism of hippies and late 1960s pop. Jones racked up a string of hits in the mid and late 1980s, before he retreated into being a cult figure in the 1990s.
Howie Dorough  Howie Dorough  Howard Dwaine Howie Dorough (born August 22, 1973) is an American musician and the oldest member of the Backstreet Boys since Kevin Richardson left in 2006.
JC Chasez  JC Chasez  Joshua Scott JC Chasez (born August 8, 1976 in Washington, DC) is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, entertainer, record producer, and occasional actor, best known as one of the lead vocalists in the former pop group 'N Sync. In 2004, Chasez released a solo album, Schizophrenic, and has gone on to write and produce for music acts such as Girls Aloud, Basement Jaxx, David Archuleta, and the Backstreet Boys. He is currently a judge for America's Best Dance Crew.
Jake Shears  Jake Shears  Jake Shears (born Jason Sellards, October 3, 1978, Arizona) is the lead male vocalist for the American music group Scissor Sisters.
Janet Jackson  Janet Jackson  Janet Damita Jo Jackson (born May 16, 1966) is an American recording artist and actress. Born in Gary, Indiana, and raised in Encino, Los Angeles, she is the youngest child of the Jackson family of musicians. She first performed on stage with her family at the age of seven, and started her career as an actress with the variety television series The Jacksons in 1976. She went on to appear in other television shows throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, including Good Times and Fame. At age sixteen in 1982, she signed a recording contract with A&amp;M, releasing her self-titled debut album the same year. She faced criticism for her limited vocal range, and for being yet another member of the Jackson family to become a recording artist. Beginning with her third studio album Control (1986), she began a long-term collaboration with record producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis. Her music with Jam and Lewis incorporated elements of rhythm and blues, disco, funk, and rap with sample loop, triplet swing and industrial beats, which led to crossover appeal in popular music. In addition to receiving recognition for the innovation in her albums, choreography, music videos, and prominence on MTV, Jackson was acknowledged as a role model for her socially conscious lyrics. In 1991, she signed the first of two record-breaking, multi-million dollar recording contracts with Virgin Records, which established her as one of the highest paid artists in the music industry. Her debut album under the Virgin label, Janet (1993), saw Jackson develop a public image as a sex symbol as she began to explore sexuality in her work. That same year, she appeared in her first starring film role in Poetic Justice; since then she has continued to act in feature films. By the end of the 1990s, she was named the second most successful recording artist of the decade. All for You (2001), became her fifth consecutive studio album to hit number one on the Billboard 200 album charts. In 2007, she changed labels, signing with The Island Def Jam Music Group and released her tenth studio album Discipline the following year. Having sold over 100 million records worldwide, Jackson is ranked as one of the best-selling artists in the history of contemporary music. The Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) lists her as the eleventh best-selling female artist in the United States, with 26 million certified albums. In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US singles chart's fiftieth anniversary, ranking Jackson at number seven. Her longevity, records and achievements reflect her influence in shaping and redefining the scope of popular music. She has been cited as an inspiration among numerous performers.
Jay Gordon  Jay Gordon  Jay Paul Gordon (born January 30, 1967) is a musician, producer and journalist. Jay Gordon Born January 30, 1967 (1967-01-30) (age 43)San Francisco, California Genres Synth-Rock, electro, pop Occupations Singer, Producer, Years active 1995 - Present Associated acts Orgy, KoRn, Deadsy, Crazy Town, Coal Chamber, Trick Factory,
Jennifer Lopez  Jennifer Lopez  Jennifer Lynn Lopez (born July 24, 1969), often nicknamed J. Lo, is an American actress, singer, record producer, dancer, fashion designer and television producer. She is the richest person of Latin American descent in Hollywood according to Forbes, and the most influential Hispanic entertainer in the U.S. according to People en Español&#39;s list of 100 Most Influential Hispanics. She parlayed her media fame into a fashion line and various perfumes with her celebrity endorsement. Outside of her work in the entertainment industry, Lopez advocates human rights, vaccinations and is a supporter of Childrens Hospital Los Angeles. Lopez began her career as a dancer on the television comedy program In Living Color. She subsequently ventured into acting and gained recognition in the 1995 action-thriller Money Train. Lopez's first leading role was in the biographical film Selena (1997), in which she earned an ALMA Award for Outstanding Actress. She earned her second ALMA Award for her performance in the 1998 film Out of Sight. She then starred in the romantic comedies such as The Wedding Planner (2001) and Maid in Manhattan (2002). Lopez had bigger commercial successes with Shall We Dance? (2004) and Monster-in-Law (2005). In 1999, Lopez released her debut studio album On the 6, which spawned number one hit single, If You Had My Love. Her second studio album, J. Lo (2001), was a commercial success, selling eight million copies worldwide. J to tha L-O!: The Remixes (2002), became her second consecutive album to debut at number one on the Billboard 200. Her third and fourth studio albums—This Is Me... Then (2002) and Rebirth (2005)—peaked at number two on the Billboard 200. In 2007, Lopez released two albums, including her first full Spanish-language album, Como Ama una Mujer, and her fifth English studio album, Brave. She won the 2003 American Music Award for Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist and the 2007 American Music Award for Favorite Latin Artist. To date, Lopez has sold over 25 million albums worldwide. Reports circulated in mid-2010 that Lopez would join the judging panel of American Idol. In September 2010, the program's producers officially confirmed that Lopez had joined the series.
Jessica Simpson  Jessica Simpson  Jessica Ann Simpson (born July 10, 1980) is an American singer, actress, television personality and fashion designer who rose to fame in 1999. She has achieved seven Billboard Top 40 hits, and five studio albums of which four have been positioned in the top 10 on Billboard 200 and besides that have been certified by the RIAA, three gold and two Multi- Platinum. Simpson starred with her then-husband Nick Lachey in the MTV reality show Newlyweds: Nick and Jessica. She ventured into the country music market in 2008 and released Do You Know
Jimmy Ruffin  Jimmy Ruffin  Jimmy Ruffin (born May 7, 1939) is an American soul singer, and elder brother of the late David Ruffin of The Temptations. He had several hit records between the 1960s and 1980s, the most successful being What Becomes of the Brokenhearted.
JoJo  JoJo (singer)  Joanna Noëlle Blagden Levesque (born December 20, 1990), professionally known as JoJo, is an American Pop/R&amp;B singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress. After competing on the television show, America's Most Talented Kids, record producer Vincent Herbert took notice who asked her to audition for Blackground Records. Her self-titled debut album
Jojo  JoJo (singer)  Joanna Noëlle Blagden Levesque (born December 20, 1990), professionally known as JoJo, is an American Pop/R&amp;B singer, songwriter, dancer, and actress. After competing on the television show, America's Most Talented Kids, record producer Vincent Herbert took notice who asked her to audition for Blackground Records. Her self-titled debut album
Jo O'Meara  Jo O'Meara  Joanne Valda O'Meara (born 29 April 1979) is an English singer-songwriter, television personality and actress. Formerly one of the lead singers of pop group S Club, she launched a solo single after the group's split in 2003, which cut short the production of a proposed album following an appearance on Celebrity Big Brother.
Jo Omeara  Jo O'Meara  Joanne Valda O'Meara (born 29 April 1979) is an English singer-songwriter, television personality and actress. Formerly one of the lead singers of pop group S Club, she launched a solo single after the group's split in 2003, which cut short the production of a proposed album following an appearance on Celebrity Big Brother.
Joey Fatone  Joey Fatone  Joseph Anthony Joey Fatone, Jr. (born January 28, 1977) is an American singer, dancer, actor and television personality. He is best known as a member of the boyband, 'N Sync, in which he sang baritone. In 2007, he came in second place on the ABC reality show Dancing With The Stars. He was also the host of the American and Australian versions of The Singing Bee and aired on National Broadcasting Company in the United States of America. Presently Fatone is the announcer on Family Feud.
Justin Timberlake  Justin Timberlake  Justin Randall Timberlake (born January 31, 1981) is an American pop musician and actor. He has won six Grammy Awards as well as two Emmy Awards. He achieved early fame when he appeared as a contestant on Star Search, and went on to star in the Disney Channel television series The New Mickey Mouse Club, where he met future bandmate JC Chasez. Timberlake became famous in the late 1990s as the lead singer of the boy band 'N Sync, whose launch was financed by Lou Pearlman. In 2002, he released his debut solo album, Justified, which sold more than 7 million copies worldwide. The album was a commercial success, spawning the hits Cry Me a River and Rock Your Body. Timberlake continued his success with his second solo album, FutureSex/LoveSounds (2006), debuting at number one on the Billboard 200 chart, and produced the US number-one hit singles SexyBack, My Love, and What Goes Around.../... Comes Around. Timberlake's first two albums made him one of the most commercially successful singers in the world, each selling in excess of 7 million copies. Aside from music, he has also begun an acting career, while his other ventures include record label Tennman Records, fashion label William Rast, and the restaurants Destino and Southern Hospitality.
Justin Randall Timberlake  Justin Timberlake  Justin Randall Timberlake (born January 31, 1981) is an American pop musician and actor. He has won six Grammy Awards as well as two Emmy Awards. He achieved early fame when he appeared as a contestant on Star Search, and went on to star in the Disney Channel television series The New Mickey Mouse Club, where he met future bandmate JC Chasez. Timberlake became famous in the late 1990s as the lead singer of the boy band 'N Sync, whose launch was financed by Lou Pearlman. In 2002, he released his debut solo album, Justified, which sold more than 7 million copies worldwide. The album was a commercial success, spawning the hits Cry Me a River and Rock Your Body. Timberlake continued his success with his second solo album, FutureSex/LoveSounds (2006), debuting at number one on the Billboard 200 chart, and produced the US number-one hit singles SexyBack, My Love, and What Goes Around.../... Comes Around. Timberlake's first two albums made him one of the most commercially successful singers in the world, each selling in excess of 7 million copies. Aside from music, he has also begun an acting career, while his other ventures include record label Tennman Records, fashion label William Rast, and the restaurants Destino and Southern Hospitality.
Kelly Rowland  Kelly Rowland  Kelendria Trene Rowland (born February 11, 1981), known as Kelly Rowland, is an American singer and entertainer. Born in Atlanta, Georgia and raised in Houston, Texas, Rowland rose to fame in the late 1990s as one of the founding members of the girl group Destiny's Child. As a solo artist, Rowland has sold over 4 million albums worldwide. During the hiatus of the group, Rowland collaborated with rapper Nelly on the single Dilemma, a worldwide number-one hit, and released her rock pop-influenced solo debut Simply Deep in 2002. It became a commercial success, selling two and half million copies worldwide, and garnered four more or less successful singles, among Stole and Can't Nobody. Following the formal disbandment of Destiny's Child in 2005, Rowland's often-delayed second album, Ms. Kelly, was released in 2007. Moderately successful on the charts, it spawned the international hit singles Like This and Work, and was re-released the following year, going on to sell over two million copies worldwide between the standard and deluxe versions. In 2009, she scored another number-one hit, with her contribution on French DJ David Guetta's single When Love Takes Over, which garnered Rowland her fifth Grammy Award. Rowland anticipates her third solo studio album with four singles, among them the international hit Commander, which Entertainment Weekly named as the number-one summer jam of 2010. In 2002, Rowland branched into acting, which led to guest stints on sitcom series such as The Hughleys and Girlfriends, and leading roles in big-screen movies like Freddy vs. Jason (2003) and The Seat Filler (2004). In 2009, she became the host of the Bravo competition series The Fashion Show alongside Isaac Mizrahi.
Kevin Richardson  Kevin Richardson (musician)  Kevin Scott Richardson (born October 3, 1971) is an American singer and a former member of the Backstreet Boys, model, actor, and composer. He was the oldest member of the band during his tenure.
Kylie Minogue  Kylie Minogue  Kylie Ann Minogue, OBE, is an Australian pop singer, songwriter, and actress. After beginning her career as a child actress on Australian television, she achieved recognition through her role in the television soap opera Neighbours, before commencing her career as a recording artist in 1987. Her first single, Locomotion, spent seven weeks at number one on the Australian singles chart and became the highest selling single of the decade. This led to a contract with songwriters and producers Stock, Aitken &amp; Waterman. Her debut album, Kylie (1988), and the single I Should Be So Lucky, each reached number one in the United Kingdom, and over the next two years, her first 13 singles reached the British top ten. Her debut film, The Delinquents (1989) was a box-office hit in Australia and the UK despite negative reviews. Initially presented as a girl next door, Minogue attempted to convey a more mature style in her music and public image. Her singles were well received, but after four albums her record sales were declining, and she left Stock, Aitken &amp; Waterman in 1992 to establish herself as an independent performer. Her next single, Confide in Me, reached number one in Australia and was a hit in several European countries in 1994, and a duet with Nick Cave, Where the Wild Roses Grow, brought Minogue a greater degree of artistic credibility. Drawing inspiration from a range of musical styles and artists, Minogue took creative control over the songwriting for her next album, Impossible Princess (1997). It failed to attract strong reviews or sales in the UK, but was successful in Australia and Israel where it reached the number 1 position. Minogue returned to prominence in 2000 with the single Spinning Around and the dance-oriented album Light Years, and she performed during the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Her music videos showed a more sexually provocative and flirtatious personality and several hit singles followed. Can't Get You Out of My Head reached number one in more than 40 countries, and the album Fever (2001) was a hit throughout the world, including the United States, a market in which Minogue had previously received little recognition. Minogue embarked on a concert tour but cancelled it when she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2005. After surgery and chemotherapy treatment, she resumed her career in 2006 with Showgirl: The Homecoming Tour. Her tenth studio album X was released in 2007 and was followed by the KylieX2008 tour. In 2009, she embarked upon her For You, For Me Tour, her first concert tour of the US and Canada. Although she was dismissed by some critics, especially during the early years of her career, she has achieved worldwide record sales of more than 100 million (including 40 million albums and 60 million singles), and has received notable music awards, including multiple ARIA and Brit Awards and a Grammy Award. She has mounted several successful concert tours and received a Mo Award for Australian Entertainer of the Year for her live performances. She was awarded the Order of the British Empire for services to music, and an Ordre des Arts et des Lettres in 2008.
Lance Bass  Lance Bass  James Lance Bass (born May 4, 1979), best known as Lance Bass, is an American pop singer, dancer, actor, film and television producer, and author. He grew up in Mississippi and rose to fame as the bass singer for the American pop boy band 'N Sync. 'N Sync's success led Bass to work in film and television. He starred in the 2001 film On the Line, which his company, Bacon &amp; Eggs, also produced. Bass later formed a second production company, Lance Bass Productions, as well as a now-defunct music management company, Free Lance Entertainment, a joint venture with Mercury Records. After completion of 'N Sync's Pop Odyssey Tour, Bass moved to Star City, Russia in much publicized pursuit of a seat on a Soyuz space capsule. Bass was certified by both NASA and the Russian Space Program after several months of cosmonaut training, and planned to join the TMA-1 mission to the International Space Station. However, after his financial sponsors backed out, Bass was denied a seat on the mission. In July 2006, Bass revealed that he is gay in a cover story for People magazine. He was awarded the Human Rights Campaign Visibility Award in October 2006, and released an autobiography, Out of Sync, in October 2007, which debuted on the New York Times Best Seller list.
Lene Nystrøm Rasted  Lene Nystrøm  Lene Nystrøm Rasted (born Lene Grawford Nystrøm; October 2, 1973), known professionally as Lene, is a Norwegian singer-songwriter and occasional actress, who is best known as vocalist for the Danish-Norwegian dance-pop group Aqua.
Luis Miguel  Luis Miguel  Luis Miguel Gallego Basteri (born on April 19, 1970) is a Mexican singer, producer and songwriter. Beginning his musical career in his childhood, Luis Miguel has become one of the most popular singers from Latin America, having performed successfully pop music, bolero, mariachi and romantic ballads. In a career that has spanned over twenty-five years, Luis Miguel has won four Latin Grammy Awards and five Grammy Awards. He is called El Sol de México (The Sun of Mexico) by the media and his fans. At the age of fifteen, Luis Miguel received a Grammy Award for his duet Me Gustas Tal Como Eres (I Like You Just The Way You Are) with Sheena Easton. In 1991, the RIAA gave him a recognition for the high sales of the albums Romance and Segundo Romance. Luis Miguel is the only Latin artist to have two Spanish-language albums (Romance and Segundo Romance) go platinum in the USA. He was the only Latin artist to perform at the show SINATRA: 80 Years My Way, along with other pop icons such as Bruce Springsteen, Natalie Cole and Bob Dylan. In 1996, Luis Miguel became the first Latin artist to receive a star in the Hollywood Walk of Fame. His album Romances
Mya  Mýa  Mýa Marie Harrison (born October 10, 1979), who performs under the mononym Mýa is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, record producer, actress, and model. Born and raised in Washington, D.C. , Harrison's eponymous debut album with Interscope Records was released in April 1998, and sold over one million copies in the United States, producing the gold-certified top ten single It's All About Me featuring Sisqo. Her second studio album, platinum-selling Fear of Flying, was released in 2000 and became a success stateside and worldwide, with single Case of the Ex becoming Mýa's breakthrough hit, reaching number-one on the Australian Singles Chart. A year after, Harrison won her first Grammy Award for the worldwide number-one hit Lady Marmalade, a cover version she recorded alongside Christina Aguilera, Lil' Kim, and Pink for the soundtrack of the film Moulin Rouge! (2001). The singer's third album, Moodring, was released in July 2003 stateside and certified Gold by the RIAA. Following several label changes, Mýa's often-delayed fourth studio album, Liberation (2007), received a download-release in Japan only and led to her 2008 Japan-exclusive album Sugar &amp; Spice. Having expanded her career to acting and product endorsement deals, Harrison has been engaged in product endorsement deals with brands such as Coca-Cola, Gap, Iceberg, Tommy Hilfiger, and Motorola and has had small roles in films such as Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights (2004), Shall We Dance? (2004), and Cursed (2005). In 2002, she had a supporting role in the film adaptation of the 1975 Broadway musical Chicago, for which she won a Screen Actors Guild Award. Harrison was the runner up on the ninth season of Dancing with the Stars. Billboard named Mýa the 97th Hot 100 Artists of 2000s.
Mýa  Mýa  Mýa Marie Harrison (born October 10, 1979), who performs under the mononym Mýa is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, record producer, actress, and model. Born and raised in Washington, D.C. , Harrison's eponymous debut album with Interscope Records was released in April 1998, and sold over one million copies in the United States, producing the gold-certified top ten single It's All About Me featuring Sisqo. Her second studio album, platinum-selling Fear of Flying, was released in 2000 and became a success stateside and worldwide, with single Case of the Ex becoming Mýa's breakthrough hit, reaching number-one on the Australian Singles Chart. A year after, Harrison won her first Grammy Award for the worldwide number-one hit Lady Marmalade, a cover version she recorded alongside Christina Aguilera, Lil' Kim, and Pink for the soundtrack of the film Moulin Rouge! (2001). The singer's third album, Moodring, was released in July 2003 stateside and certified Gold by the RIAA. Following several label changes, Mýa's often-delayed fourth studio album, Liberation (2007), received a download-release in Japan only and led to her 2008 Japan-exclusive album Sugar &amp; Spice. Having expanded her career to acting and product endorsement deals, Harrison has been engaged in product endorsement deals with brands such as Coca-Cola, Gap, Iceberg, Tommy Hilfiger, and Motorola and has had small roles in films such as Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights (2004), Shall We Dance? (2004), and Cursed (2005). In 2002, she had a supporting role in the film adaptation of the 1975 Broadway musical Chicago, for which she won a Screen Actors Guild Award. Harrison was the runner up on the ninth season of Dancing with the Stars. Billboard named Mýa the 97th Hot 100 Artists of 2000s.
Madonna  Madonna (entertainer)  Madonna (born Madonna Louise Ciccone; August 16, 1958) is an American recording artist, actress and entrepreneur. Born in Bay City, Michigan, she moved to New York City in 1977 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing in the music groups Breakfast Club and Emmy, she released her debut album in 1983. She followed it with a series of albums in which she found immense popularity by pushing the boundaries of lyrical content in mainstream popular music and imagery in her music videos, which became a fixture on MTV. Throughout her career, many of her songs have hit number one on the record charts, including Like a Virgin, Papa Don't Preach, Like a Prayer, Vogue, Frozen, Music, Hung Up, and 4 Minutes. Madonna has been praised by critics for her diverse musical productions while at the same time serving as a lightning rod for religious controversy. Her career was further enhanced by film appearances that began in 1979, despite mixed commentary. She won critical acclaim and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in Motion Picture Musical or Comedy for her role in Evita (1996), but has received harsh feedback for other film roles. Madonna's other ventures include being a fashion designer, children's book author, film director and producer, and owner of her own recording company Maverick corporation, as a joint venture with Time Warner. She has been acclaimed as a businesswoman, and in 2007, she signed an unprecedented US $120 million contract with Live Nation. Madonna has sold more than 300 million records worldwide and is recognized as the world's top-selling female recording artist of all time by the Guinness World Records. According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she is the best-selling female rock artist of the 20th century and the second top-selling female artist in the United States, behind Barbra Streisand, with 64 million certified albums. In 2008, Billboard magazine ranked Madonna at number two, behind only The Beatles, on the Billboard Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists, making her the most successful solo artist in the history of the chart. She was also inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in the same year. Considered to be one of the most influential figures in contemporary music, Madonna is known for continuously reinventing both her music and image, and for retaining a standard of autonomy within the recording industry. She is recognized as an inspiration among numerous music artists.
Marc Lavoine  Marc Lavoine  Marc Lucien Lavoine is a French singer and actor. In 1985, his hit single Elle a les yeux revolver allowed him to reach the top of the French chart and marked the beginning of his successful singing career.
Mariah Carey  Mariah Carey  Mariah Carey (born March 27, 1970) is an American R&amp;B singer-songwriter, record producer and actress. She made her recording debut, in 1990, under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola and became the first recording artist to have her first five singles top the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. Following her marriage to Mottola, in 1993, a series of hit records established her position as Columbia's highest-selling act. In 1998, Carey received the World Music Awards for becoming the World's Best Selling Recording Artist of the 1990's as well as the award for World's Best Selling R&amp;B Artist.  Following her separation from Mottola, in 1997, she introduced elements of hip hop into her album work, to much initial success, but her popularity was in decline when she left Columbia, in 2001. She signed to Virgin Records but was dropped from the label and bought out of her contract in the following year, after a highly publicized physical and emotional breakdown, as well as the poor reception that was given to Glitter, her film and soundtrack project. In 2002, Carey signed with Island Records, and, after a relatively unsuccessful period, she returned to the top of pop music, in 2005, with her album, The Emancipation of Mimi. According to Island Def Jam, Carey has sold more than 200 million albums, singles and videos worldwide, which makes her one of the world's best-selling music artists. She was named the best-selling female pop artist of the millennium at the 2000 World Music Awards and is also a recipient of the Chopard Diamond Award in 2003, recognizing sales of over 100 million albums worldwide. According to the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), she is the third-best-selling female artist and seventeenth overall recording artist with shipments of 63 million albums in the United States. In 2008, Carey earned her eighteenth number one single on the Hot 100, the most for any solo artist. Aside from her commercial accomplishments, she has earned five Grammy Awards and is known for her five-octave vocal range, power, melismatic style and use of the whistle register.
Marie Osmond  Marie Osmond  Olive Marie Osmond (born October 13, 1959) is an American actress, singer, doll designer, and a member of the show business family The Osmonds. Although she was never part of her family's singing group, she gained success as a solo country music artist in the 1970s and 1980s. Her best known song is a cover of the country pop ballad Paper Roses.  In 1976, she and her singer brother Donny Osmond began hosting the TV variety show Donny &amp; Marie.
Mark Owen  Mark Owen  Mark Owen (born 27 January 1972) is an English singer-songwriter. He is a member of pop-rock band Take That. The band were successful during the early 1990s and have enjoyed more success since their reunion in 2005.
Marlon Jackson  Marlon Jackson  Marlon David Jackson (born March 12, 1957) is an American entertainer singer, dancer, former member of The Jackson 5, and elder brother of American pop stars Michael Jackson and Janet Jackson.
Marta Sánchez  Marta Sánchez  Marta Sánchez López is a Spanish female vocalist. She was born on 8 May 1966 in Madrid. Her father, Antonio Sánchez Camporro, was a Galician opera singer.
Melanie Brown  Melanie Brown  Melanie Janine Brown (born 29 May 1975) is an English pop singer-songwriter, actress, author and television presenter. She is best known as one of the members of the girl group the Spice Girls. She was given the nickname Scary Spice by the British media because of her outrageous, in-your-face attitude, thick Leeds accent, throaty laugh and manner of dress.
Melanie Chisholm  Melanie Chisholm  Melanie Jayne Chisholm (born 12 January 1974) is an English singer-songwriter, actress and businesswoman. She is best known as one of the five members of the girl group Spice Girls, in which she was nicknamed Sporty Spice. Performing as Melanie C as a solo artist, she released four albums, earned nominations for a BRIT and ECHO Awards and charted at the top of Billboard Dance Chart in the United States in late 2000. Chisholm has sold 10 million albums as a solo artist and holds the third position for most United Kingdom number-ones by a female artist only behind Madonna and her former Spice Girls bandmate Geri Halliwell. She is also third after John Lennon and Paul McCartney for the most UK number-one singles by a British co-writer and is the only female to reach the UK number-one as part of a quintet, quartet, duo and as a solo artist.
Michael Joseph Jackson  Michael Jackson  Michael Joseph Jackson (August 29, 1958 – June 25, 2009) was an American recording artist, entertainer, and philanthropist. Referred to as the King of Pop, Jackson is recognized as the most successful entertainer of all time by Guinness World Records. His contribution to music, dance and fashion, along with a much-publicized personal life, made him a global figure in popular culture for over four decades. The eighth child of the Jackson family, he debuted on the professional music scene along with his brothers as a member of The Jackson 5 in the mid-1960s, and began his solo career in 1971. In the early 1980s, Jackson became a dominant figure in popular music. The music videos for his songs including Beat It, Billie Jean and Thriller, were credited with transforming the medium into an art form and a promotional tool, and the popularity of these videos helped to bring the relatively new television channel MTV to fame. Videos such as Black or White and Scream made him a staple on MTV in the 1990s. Through stage performances and music videos, Jackson popularized a number of dance techniques, such as the robot and the moonwalk. His distinctive musical sound and vocal style have influenced numerous hip hop, pop, contemporary R&amp;B and rock artists. Jackson's 1982 album Thriller is the best-selling album of all time. His other records, including Off the Wall (1979), Bad (1987), Dangerous (1991) and HIStory (1995), also rank among the world's best-selling. Jackson is one of the few artists to have been inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame twice. He was also inducted into the Dance Hall of Fame as the first (and currently only) dancer from the world of pop and rock 'n' roll. Some of his other achievements include multiple Guinness World Records; 13 Grammy Awards (as well as the Grammy Legend Award and the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award); 26 American Music Awards (more than any other artist, including the Artist of the Century); 13 number-one singles in the United States in his solo career (more than any other male artist in the Hot 100 era); and the estimated sale of over 800 million records worldwide. Jackson won hundreds of awards, which have made him the most-awarded recording artist in the history of music. He was also a notable humanitarian and philanthropist, donating and raising hundreds of millions of dollars for beneficial causes and supporting more than 39 charities. Aspects of Jackson's personal life, including his changing appearance, personal relationships and behavior, have generated controversy. In 1993, he was accused of child sexual abuse, but the case was settled out of court and no formal charges were brought. In 2005, he was tried and acquitted of further sexual abuse allegations and several other charges after the jury ruled him not guilty on all counts. While preparing for his concert series This Is It, Jackson died on June 25, 2009, after suffering from cardiac arrest. Before his death, Jackson had reportedly been administered drugs such as propofol and lorazepam. The Los Angeles County Coroner declared his death a homicide, and his personal physician pleaded not guilty to charges of involuntary manslaughter. Jackson's death triggered a global outpouring of grief, and as many as one billion people around the world reportedly watched his public memorial service on live television. In March 2010, Sony Music Entertainment signed a US$250 million deal with Jackson's estate to retain distribution rights to his recordings until 2017, and to release seven posthumous albums over the decade following his death.
Michael W. Smith  Michael W. Smith  Michael W. Smith was born on October 7, 1957. Smith is a Grammy Award-winning American singer-songwriter, composer, and actor. He is one of the best-selling and most influential artists in Contemporary Christian music. Smith also has achieved a considerable amount of success in the mainstream music industry. Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner, and has earned 40 Dove Awards
Michael Whitaker Smith  Michael W. Smith  Michael W. Smith was born on October 7, 1957. Smith is a Grammy Award-winning American singer-songwriter, composer, and actor. He is one of the best-selling and most influential artists in Contemporary Christian music. Smith also has achieved a considerable amount of success in the mainstream music industry. Smith is a three-time Grammy Award winner, and has earned 40 Dove Awards
Milva  Milva  Maria Ilva Biolcati Commendatore OMRI (born July 17, 1939), known as Milva, is an Italian singer, actress and television personality. She is also known as 'La Rossa', (Italian for 'The Red'), due to the colour of her hair, and additionally as the 'Panther of Goro', which stems from the Italian press having nicknamed the three most popular Italian female singers of the 1960s, combining the names of animals and the singers' birth places. The other two were Mina, 'The Tiger of Cremona', and Iva Zanicchi, 'The Eagle of Ligonchio'.
Nancy Sinatra  Nancy Sinatra  Nancy Sandra Sinatra (born June 8, 1940) is an American singer and actress. She is the daughter of singer/actor Frank Sinatra, and remains known for her 1966 signature hit These Boots Are Made for Walkin' and her cover of Cher's Bang Bang (My Baby Shot Me Down) (lyrics and music by Sonny Bono), which was used as the opening sequence theme in Quentin Tarantino's Kill Bill. Her other popular recordings include Sugar Town, How Does That Grab You, Darlin'? and the theme from the James Bond film, You Only Live Twice. Sinatra began her career as a singer and actress in the early 1960s, but initially achieved success only in Europe and Japan. Then she had a transatlantic number-one hit with These Boots Are Made for Walkin', which showed her provocative but good-natured style, and which popularized and made her synonymous with go-go boots. The promo clip featured a big-haired Sinatra and six young women in tight tops, go-go boots and mini-skirts. The song was written by Lee Hazlewood, who wrote and produced most of her hits and sang with her on several duets, including Some Velvet Morning. In 1966 and 1967, Sinatra charted with 13 titles, all of which featured Billy Strange as arranger and conductor. In 1967 she paired with her father, Frank Sinatra, for her second number-one single, Somethin' Stupid. She also co-starred with Elvis Presley in the movie Speedway.
Natalie Imbruglia  Natalie Imbruglia  Natalie Jane Imbruglia (born February 4, 1975) is an Australian singer-songwriter, model and actress. In the early 1990s, Imbruglia was known to audiences as Beth Brennan in the popular Australian soap Neighbours. Three years after leaving the programme, Imbruglia launched a singing career with the international hit, Torn. The subsequent debut album Left of the Middle (1997) sold over 6 million copies worldwide. While following releases, White Lilies Island (2001) and Counting Down the Days
Ne-Yo  Ne-Yo  Shaffer Chimere Smith (born October 18, 1982), better known by his stage name Ne-Yo, is an American pop and R&amp;B singer-songwriter, record producer, dancer, actor, and occasional rapper. Since his debut, Ne-Yo has had five top ten songs on the Billboard Hot 100 as a lead artist and two number-one albums on the Billboard 200. Ne-Yo has also amassed a catalog of chart-topping songs that he has written for other artists. Ne-Yo broke into the recording industry as a songwriter, penning the hit Let Me Love You for singer Mario. The single's successful release in the United States prompted an informal meeting between Ne-Yo and Def Jam's label head, and signing a recording contract. In 2006, he released his debut album, In My Own Words, which contained the US number one hit So Sick. Then in 2007, he released his sophomore album, Because of You which contained the US top 3 hit, Because of You. In 2008, he released his third album, Year of the Gentleman, which contained the top 10 hits Closer and Miss Independent. His fourth studio album Libra Scale is set to be released on November 22, 2010. Ne-Yo has so far released three singles of the upcoming album, Beautiful Monster, Champagne Life and One in a Million.
Neil Sedaka  Neil Sedaka  Neil Sedaka (born March 13, 1939) is an American pop singer, pianist, and songwriter. His career has spanned over 50 years, during which time he has written many songs for himself and others, often working with lyricists Howard Greenfield and Phil Cody.
Nelly Furtado  Nelly Furtado  Nelly Kim Furtado (born December 2, 1978) is a Canadian singer-songwriter, record producer, and actress. She has sold 20 million albums worldwide. Furtado grew up in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. Furtado came into the public eye in 2000 with the release of her debut album Whoa, Nelly!, which featured her breakthrough Grammy Award-winning single I'm Like a Bird. After becoming a mother and releasing the less commercially successful Folklore (2003), she returned to prominence in 2006 with the release of Loose and its hit singles Promiscuous, Maneater, All Good Things (Come to an End) and Say It Right. In 2009 she released her first full-length Spanish album Mi Plan.
Nick Carter  Nick Carter (musician)  Nickolas Gene Nick Carter (born January 28, 1980) is an American singer-songwriter, dancer, entertainer and actor. He is best known as one of the lead vocalists of the pop group, Backstreet Boys. He went on to release a solo album during their hiatus. He has made occasional television appearances and starred in his own reality show, House of Carters. He is also the older brother of singer Aaron Carter.
Nicole Prescovia Elikolani Valiente Scherzinger  Nicole Scherzinger  Nicole Prescovia Elikolani Valiente Scherzinger (born June 29, 1978) is an American singer, songwriter, dancer and occasional actress who is best known as the lead singer of the Pussycat Dolls. Previously, Scherzinger was a backing vocalist for the late-1990s rock group Days of the New, then she was part of reality TV girl group Eden's Crush. After the disbandment of the group she joined the Pussycat Dolls and became the lead vocalist during the transition to a popular music group. So far, the Pussycat Dolls have released two albums, PCD and Doll Domination, with two supporting tours. More recently, in early 2010, Scherzinger became the winner of the tenth season of Dancing with the Stars.
Pamela Petrarolo  Pamela Petrarolo  Pamela Petrarolo (born in Rome, 10 November 1976) is an Italian singer and actress. Her career began in 1990 with the show Domenica In, directed by Gianni Boncompagni. The next year was in Non è la RAI, another Boncompagni's show, where she danced and sang till 1995. After that experience, became a theatre actress. In 2006 was in the Italian version of The Farm.
Patti LaBelle  Patti LaBelle  Patti LaBelle (born Patricia Louise Holte; May 24, 1944) is an American singer and actress. She fronted two groups, Patti LaBelle and the Bluebelles, which received minor success on the pop charts in the 1960s, and Labelle, which received acclaim and a mainstream breakthrough in 1974 with their song Lady Marmalade
Paul Anka  Paul Anka  Paul Albert Anka, OC (born July 30, 1941) is a Canadian American singer, songwriter, and actor. Anka first became famous as a teen idol in the late 1950s and 1960s with hit songs like Diana', Lonely Boy, and Put Your Head on My Shoulder. He went on to write such well-known music as the theme for The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson and one of Tom Jones's biggest hits, She's a Lady, and the English lyrics for Frank Sinatra's signature song, My Way. In 1983, he co-wrote with Michael Jackson the song I Never Heard, which was retitled and released in 2009 under the name This Is It. An additional song that Jackson co-wrote with Anka from this 1983 session, Love Never Felt So Good, has since been discovered, and will be released in the near future. The song was also released by Johnny Mathis in 1984. Anka became a naturalized US citizen in 1990.
Paul McCartney  Paul McCartney  Sir James Paul McCartney, MBE (born 18 June 1942) is an English musician, singer-songwriter and composer. Formerly of The Beatles (1960–1970) and Wings (1971–1981), McCartney is the most successful songwriter in the history of popular music, according to Guinness World Records. McCartney gained worldwide fame as a member of the Beatles, alongside John Lennon, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr. McCartney and Lennon formed one of the most influential and successful songwriting partnerships and wrote some of the most popular songs in the history of rock music. After leaving the Beatles, McCartney launched a successful solo career and formed the band Wings with his first wife, Linda Eastman, and singer-songwriter Denny Laine. McCartney is listed in Guinness World Records as the most successful musician and composer in popular music history, with 60 gold discs and sales of 100 million singles in the UK. BBC News Online readers named McCartney the greatest composer of the millennium, and BBC News cites his Beatles song Yesterday as the most covered song in the history of recorded music—by over 2,200 artists—and since its 1965 release, has been played more than 7,000,000 times on American television and radio according to the BBC. Wings' 1977 single Mull of Kintyre became the first single to sell more than two million copies in the UK, and remains the UK's top selling non-charity single. Based on the 93 weeks his compositions have spent at the top spot of the UK chart, and 24 number one singles to his credit, McCartney is the most successful songwriter in UK singles chart history. As a performer or songwriter, McCartney was responsible for 32 number one singles on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, and has sold 15.5 million RIAA certified albums in the US alone. McCartney has composed film scores, classical and electronic music, released a large catalogue of songs as a solo artist, and has taken part in projects to help international charities. He is an advocate for animal rights, for vegetarianism, and for music education; he is active in campaigns against landmines, seal hunting, and Third World debt. He is a keen football fan, supporting both Everton and Liverpool football clubs. His company MPL Communications owns the copyrights to more than 3,000 songs, including all of the songs written by Buddy Holly, along with the publishing rights to such musicals as Guys and Dolls, A Chorus Line, and Grease. McCartney is one of the UK's wealthiest people, with an estimated fortune of £475 million in 2010.
Paula Abdul  Paula Abdul  Paula Julie Abdul (born June 19, 1962) is an American pop singer, record producer, dancer, choreographer, actress and television personality. In the 1980s, Abdul rose from cheerleader for the Los Angeles Lakers to highly sought-after choreographer at the height of the music video era before scoring a string of Pop-R&amp;B hits in the late-1980s and early-1990s. Her six number one singles on the Billboard Hot 100
Paula Kelley  Paula Kelley  Paula Kelley is an American indie pop singer-songwriter and orchestral arranger/composer from Boston, Massachusetts. She began her musical career in the 1990s with the band Drop Nineteens before leaving them in 1994 to start her own career in songwriting. She worked with several other bands before finally going solo with her first album, Nothing/Everything, which was released in 2001 on Stop, Pop, and Roll Records in the US and then later on Caraway in Japan, which gained her plenty of Japanese fans. The Trouble With Success or How You Fit Into The World was released in 2003 on the independent Kimchee Records label in the US and again on Caraway in Japan. She followed this up with a US tour and a tour of France after the album's European release through Polaris Musique/Sony. Her latest release is the Airports EP (2008), a collection of four orchestrated tracks intended to be a teaser for her forthcoming album. Paula is known for her melodic, emotional songs, expansive instrumental arrangements and sweet, distinctive singing voice. A statistical genius and member of MENSA, Kelley began playing piano at age three and was an orchestral harpsichordist by the time she was in high school. She also plays guitar, bass, drums, and other sundry instruments. She attended Phillips Exeter Academy, then Boston University, receiving her Bachelor's Degree with a double major of History/Political Science. In 2005 Ms. Kelley relocated to Los Angeles to pursue a career scoring films and doing orchestral arrangements, in addition to recording and performing her own music. A filmography can be found on her professional website.
Paulina Rubio  Paulina Rubio  Paulina Susana Rubio Rue-Riestra (born June 17, 1971) is a Mexican singer and actress. Rubio achieved international stardom with her fifth studio album, Paulina (2000), and has sold over 20 million albums. Rubio placed as the 7th most successful Latin Pop Song Artist of the last decade per Billboard Magazine. Her greatest English-language success was her 2002 single Don't Say Goodbye (Si Tú Te Vas) from her sixth album, Border Girl. Causa y Efecto, the first single from her most recent album Gran City Pop
Pedro Fernandez  Pedro Fernández  Pedro Fernández (born José Martín Cuevas Cabos on September 28, 1969) is a Mexican actor and singer. He took his artistic name by combining his two musical idols, Pedro Infante and Vicente Fernández. Vicente Fernández gave him his first shot at success by introducing him as a singer in one of Vicente's palenques. He made his cinematic debut in 1979 at age 9 in the movie La Niña de la mochila azul. Since then he has starred in many Mexican films and soap operas, but is best known for his numerous Latin hits such as Mi Forma De Sentir and La Mujer Que Amas.  He won the Latin Grammy Award for Best Ranchero Album for Yo No Fui at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2001. His most recent album is 2008's Dime Mi Amor which produced the hit single Amiga Por Favor. For his work as a recording artist, on television, and in the motion picture industry, Pedrito, as he is sometimes called, has been inducted into the Paseo de las Luminarias in Mexico City. On October 9, 2010 Pedro Fernández celebrated his religious wedding which was overshadowed by denying them access to his brother Gerardo Cuevas.
Pink  Pink (singer)  Alecia Beth Moore (born September 8, 1979), better known by her stage name Pink (stylized as P!nk), is an American contralto singer-songwriter, musician, acrobat, dancer and actress, who rose to fame in early 2000. She released her first single There You Go, on her first album, the R&amp;B-oriented Can't Take Me Home, in 2000 via LaFace Records, which garnered commercial success. Her more pop rock-oriented second studio album, Missundaztood, which began a marked shift in the sound of her music, was released in 2001 and was a huge success worldwide, featuring the singles Get The Party Started, Don't Let Me Get Me, Just Like A Pill and Family Portrait. Pink released her third album, Try This, in November 2003, which although less successful commercially than her previous release, still managed to sell around 3 million copies and earned her a Grammy for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the single Trouble. Her fourth album, called I'm Not Dead, was released in April 2006. The album generated several hit singles, including Stupid Girls, U + Ur Hand and Who Knew
P!nk  Pink (singer)  Alecia Beth Moore (born September 8, 1979), better known by her stage name Pink (stylized as P!nk), is an American contralto singer-songwriter, musician, acrobat, dancer and actress, who rose to fame in early 2000. She released her first single There You Go, on her first album, the R&amp;B-oriented Can't Take Me Home, in 2000 via LaFace Records, which garnered commercial success. Her more pop rock-oriented second studio album, Missundaztood, which began a marked shift in the sound of her music, was released in 2001 and was a huge success worldwide, featuring the singles Get The Party Started, Don't Let Me Get Me, Just Like A Pill and Family Portrait. Pink released her third album, Try This, in November 2003, which although less successful commercially than her previous release, still managed to sell around 3 million copies and earned her a Grammy for Best Female Rock Vocal Performance for the single Trouble. Her fourth album, called I'm Not Dead, was released in April 2006. The album generated several hit singles, including Stupid Girls, U + Ur Hand and Who Knew
Róisín Murphy  Róisín Murphy  Róisín Marie Murphy is an Irish singer-songwriter and record producer, known for her electronic style. Murphy first came to note as part of the electronic music duo Moloko. Her partner in the band was then-boyfriend Mark Brydon. After the two ended their romantic relationship, Murphy released her debut solo album Ruby Blue, written and produced with Matthew Herbert, in 2005. Her second solo album Overpowered was released in 2007. On 10 January 2008, Overpowered received a nomination for the Choice Music Prize in Ireland; the award is given each year to an Irish artist who has proved to produce a critically acclaimed album. Her version of Slave to Love by Bryan Ferry is featured in the 2008 Gucci commercial starring actor James Franco.
Roisin Murphy  Róisín Murphy  Róisín Marie Murphy is an Irish singer-songwriter and record producer, known for her electronic style. Murphy first came to note as part of the electronic music duo Moloko. Her partner in the band was then-boyfriend Mark Brydon. After the two ended their romantic relationship, Murphy released her debut solo album Ruby Blue, written and produced with Matthew Herbert, in 2005. Her second solo album Overpowered was released in 2007. On 10 January 2008, Overpowered received a nomination for the Choice Music Prize in Ireland; the award is given each year to an Irish artist who has proved to produce a critically acclaimed album. Her version of Slave to Love by Bryan Ferry is featured in the 2008 Gucci commercial starring actor James Franco.
Randy Jackson  Randy Jackson (The Jacksons)  Steven Randall Randy Jackson (born October 29, 1961) is an American singer and musician, a member of The Jacksons. Nicknamed Little Randy, he is the youngest of the Jackson brothers, and the second youngest of the nine Jackson siblings, before sister Janet. Randy was only three when the Jackson 5 was formed and therefore was not an original member. While his brothers toured, he honed his skills as a musician, mastering piano.
Rawy Torres  Rawy Torres  Wilson Rawy Torres (born August 11, 1975) is a Puerto Rican singer, composer, and guitarist, who was a member of the well known boy band, Menudo.
Ray Charles  Ray Charles  Ray Charles Robinson (September 23, 1930 &ndash; June 10, 2004), better known by his shortened stage name Ray Charles, was an American musician. Ray was a pioneer in the genre of soul music during the 1950s by fusing rhythm &amp; blues, gospel, and blues styles into his early recordings with Atlantic Records. He also helped racially integrate country and pop music during the 1960s with his crossover success on ABC Records, most notably with his Modern Sounds albums. While with ABC, Charles became one of the first African-American musicians to be given artistic control by a mainstream record company. Rolling Stone ranked Charles number 10 on their list of 100 Greatest Artists of All Time in 2004, and number two on their November 2008 list of 100 Greatest Singers of All Time. In honoring Charles, Billy Joel noted: This may sound like sacrilege, but I think Ray Charles was more important than Elvis Presley. I don't know if Ray was the architect of rock &amp; roll, but he was certainly the first guy to do a lot of things . . . Who the hell ever put so many styles together and made it work?
Rebbie Brown  Rebbie Jackson  Maureen Reillette Brown (née Jackson; born May 29, 1950) is an American singer professionally known as Rebbie Jackson. Born and raised in Gary, Indiana, she is the eldest child of the Jackson family of musicians. She first performed on stage with her siblings during shows in Las Vegas, Nevada, at the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in 1974, before subsequently appearing in the television series The Jacksons. At age 34, Jackson released her debut album Centipede (1984). The album featured songs written by Smokey Robinson, Prince and her younger brother Michael, whose contribution (the title track Centipede) became Rebbie's most successful single release. By the end of the 1980s, the singer had released two more albums in quick succession: Reaction (1986) and R U Tuff Enuff (1988). Following a 10-year hiatus in her musical career, Jackson returned with the 1998 album Yours Faithfully. The production of the album, her last to date, had the singer collaborate with artists and producers such as Men of Vizion's Spanky Williams, Keith Thomas and Eliot Kennedy. It also featured contributions from her children. Nathaniel Brown is Jackson's husband and the two have been married since 1968.
Rebbie Jackson  Rebbie Jackson  Maureen Reillette Brown (née Jackson; born May 29, 1950) is an American singer professionally known as Rebbie Jackson. Born and raised in Gary, Indiana, she is the eldest child of the Jackson family of musicians. She first performed on stage with her siblings during shows in Las Vegas, Nevada, at the MGM Grand Hotel and Casino in 1974, before subsequently appearing in the television series The Jacksons. At age 34, Jackson released her debut album Centipede (1984). The album featured songs written by Smokey Robinson, Prince and her younger brother Michael, whose contribution (the title track Centipede) became Rebbie's most successful single release. By the end of the 1980s, the singer had released two more albums in quick succession: Reaction (1986) and R U Tuff Enuff (1988). Following a 10-year hiatus in her musical career, Jackson returned with the 1998 album Yours Faithfully. The production of the album, her last to date, had the singer collaborate with artists and producers such as Men of Vizion's Spanky Williams, Keith Thomas and Eliot Kennedy. It also featured contributions from her children. Nathaniel Brown is Jackson's husband and the two have been married since 1968.
Regina Spektor  Regina Spektor  Regina Ilyinichna Spektor is a Russian-born American singer-songwriter and pianist. Her music is associated with the anti-folk scene centered in New York City's East Village.
René Dif  René Dif  René Dif is a musician and actor, best known as the male vocalist in the Danish pop-dance group Aqua.
Richard Marx  Richard Marx  Richard Noel Marx is an American adult contemporary and pop/rock singer, songwriter, musician, and record producer. He had a string of hit singles in the late 1980s and 1990s, including Endless Summer Nights, Right Here Waiting, Now and Forever, and Hazard. Although most of his major hit songs were slow ballads, many of his songs had a classic rock style, such as Don't Mean Nothing, Should've Known Better, Satisfied, and Too Late To Say Goodbye. Marx placed himself in the record books by being the first solo artist to have his first seven singles hit the Top 5 on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart (3, 3, 2, 1, 1, 1, 4). His record sales worldwide exceed 30 million. Aside from songs that he has sung himself, he has written, co-written, and produced successful tracks for other artists such as This I Promise You by NSYNC and Dance With My Father by Luther Vandross. The latter song won several Grammy Awards.
Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin  Ricky Martin (born Enrique Martín Morales on December 24, 1971) is a Puerto Rican pop singer and actor who achieved prominence, first as a member of the Latin boyband Menudo, then as a solo artist since 1991. During his career he has sold more than 60 million albums worldwide. He is the founder of Ricky Martín Foundation (in Spanish Fundación Ricky Martin), a non-profit charity organization.
Ringo Starr  Ringo Starr  Richard Starkey, MBE (born 7 July 1940), better known by his stage name Ringo Starr, is an English musician, singer-songwriter, and actor who gained worldwide fame as the drummer for The Beatles. When the band formed in 1960, Starr belonged to another Liverpool band, Rory Storm and the Hurricanes. He became the Beatles' drummer in 1962, taking over from Pete Best. In addition to his contribution as drummer, Starr featured as lead singer on a number of successful Beatles songs and as songwriter with the songs Don't Pass Me By, What Goes On and Octopus's Garden. As drummer for the Beatles, Starr was musically creative, and his contribution to the band's music has received high praise from notable drummers in more recent times. Starr described himself as your basic offbeat drummer with funny fills, technically limited by being a left-handed person playing a right-handed kit. Drummer Steve Smith said that Starr's popularity brought forth a new paradigm where we started to see the drummer as an equal participant in the compositional aspect and that Starr composed unique, stylistic drum parts for the Beatles songs. Starr is the most documented and critically acclaimed actor-Beatle, playing a central role in several Beatles films, and appearing in numerous other movies, both during and after his career with the Beatles. After the Beatles' break-up in 1970, Starr achieved solo musical success with several singles and albums, and recorded with each of his fellow ex-Beatles as they too developed their post-Beatle musical careers. He has also been featured in a number of TV documentaries, hosted TV shows, and narrated the children's television series Thomas the Tank Engine &amp; Friends. He currently tours with the All-Starr Band, making stops in such cities as New York and Boston, MA.
Richard Starkey  Ringo Starr  Richard Starkey, MBE (born 7 July 1940), better known by his stage name Ringo Starr, is an English musician, singer-songwriter, and actor who gained worldwide fame as the drummer for The Beatles. When the band formed in 1960, Starr belonged to another Liverpool band, Rory Storm and the Hurricanes. He became the Beatles' drummer in 1962, taking over from Pete Best. In addition to his contribution as drummer, Starr featured as lead singer on a number of successful Beatles songs and as songwriter with the songs Don't Pass Me By, What Goes On and Octopus's Garden. As drummer for the Beatles, Starr was musically creative, and his contribution to the band's music has received high praise from notable drummers in more recent times. Starr described himself as your basic offbeat drummer with funny fills, technically limited by being a left-handed person playing a right-handed kit. Drummer Steve Smith said that Starr's popularity brought forth a new paradigm where we started to see the drummer as an equal participant in the compositional aspect and that Starr composed unique, stylistic drum parts for the Beatles songs. Starr is the most documented and critically acclaimed actor-Beatle, playing a central role in several Beatles films, and appearing in numerous other movies, both during and after his career with the Beatles. After the Beatles' break-up in 1970, Starr achieved solo musical success with several singles and albums, and recorded with each of his fellow ex-Beatles as they too developed their post-Beatle musical careers. He has also been featured in a number of TV documentaries, hosted TV shows, and narrated the children's television series Thomas the Tank Engine &amp; Friends. He currently tours with the All-Starr Band, making stops in such cities as New York and Boston, MA.
Robbie Williams  Robbie Williams  Robert Peter Robbie Williams (born 13 February 1974) is an English singer-songwriter, vocal coach and occasional actor. He is a member of the pop group Take That. Williams rose to fame in the band's first run in the early- to mid-1990s. After many disagreements with the management and certain group members, Williams left the group in 1995 to launch his solo career. On 15 July 2010, it was announced he had rejoined Take That and that the group intended to release a new album in November 2010. Williams has sold more than 55 million records worldwide. He is the best-selling British solo artist in the United Kingdom and the best selling non-Latino artist in Latin America. Six of his albums are among the top 100 biggest-selling albums in the United Kingdom. He has also been honoured with fifteen BRIT Awards—more than any other artist—and seven ECHO Awards. In 2004, he was inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame after being voted as the Greatest Artist of the 1990s.
Ronan Keating  Ronan Keating  Ronan Patrick John Keating (born 3 March 1977) is an Irish singer-songwriter, occasional actor, composer, musician, and television-radio personality. Keating made his debut, alongside with Keith Duffy, Mikey Graham, Shane Lynch and Stephen Gately, in 1994 as the lead singer of Boyzone. His solo career started in 1999, and resulted in 7 studio albums. Keating gained worldwide attention when his single When You Say Nothing at All was featured in the film Notting Hill and peaked at number one in several charts. Keating has worked as a charity campaigner most notably for the Marie Keating Foundation, a foundation that raises awareness for breast cancer. It is named after his mother, who died of the disease.
Sakis Rouvas  Sakis Rouvas  Anastasios Sakis Rouvas II (born 5 January 1972), often referred to mononymously as Sakis, is a Greek musician, television and film artist, businessman, and former pole vaulter who is one of the most commercially successful entertainers of all time in Greece and Cyprus. Beginning a career as a member of the national athletics team, Rouvas commenced a musical career in 1991 and became one of Greece's first pop performers; widely recognized as the genre's main performers to this day, he is credited with breaking cultural and generational barriers and aiding in the popularization of Western music genres in Greece and Cyprus. In the early 1990s after winning the Thessaloniki Song Festival, Rouvas became a dominant figure in Greek entertainment, gaining a mass fanbase and being cited as a phenomenon. His sexualized image and live performances utilizing complex choreography and costumes have earned him notoriety. He and manager Elias Psinakis formed a famous partnership in Greek show business. Rouvas' increasing popularity was coupled with criticism of both professional choices and personal struggles, which damaged his public image and lead to a brief, relatively unsuccessful period in the mid 90s. After five commercially successful albums with PolyGram Greece, Rouvas signed with Minos EMI in 1998. Having been a notable artist in the Balkans for years, Rouvas embarked on multiple projects abroad and represented his country in the Eurovision Song Contest in 2004 and 2009 and co-presented the 2006 contest, while also venturing into film and television. Amongst Rouvas' achievements include multiple recognized awards &ndash;including six Arion Music Awards, 12 MAD Video Music Awards, and a World Music Award&ndash; number-one albums and singles that have all achieved certifications of gold or higher, and sales of an estimated two million records as of 2008, making him one of Greece's best-selling music artists in history. Rouvas' distinct musical and performance style has influenced other artists, while his contributions to music have made him a prominent part of popular culture for nearly two decades.
Σάκης Ρουβάς  Sakis Rouvas  Anastasios Sakis Rouvas II (born 5 January 1972), often referred to mononymously as Sakis, is a Greek musician, television and film artist, businessman, and former pole vaulter who is one of the most commercially successful entertainers of all time in Greece and Cyprus. Beginning a career as a member of the national athletics team, Rouvas commenced a musical career in 1991 and became one of Greece's first pop performers; widely recognized as the genre's main performers to this day, he is credited with breaking cultural and generational barriers and aiding in the popularization of Western music genres in Greece and Cyprus. In the early 1990s after winning the Thessaloniki Song Festival, Rouvas became a dominant figure in Greek entertainment, gaining a mass fanbase and being cited as a phenomenon. His sexualized image and live performances utilizing complex choreography and costumes have earned him notoriety. He and manager Elias Psinakis formed a famous partnership in Greek show business. Rouvas' increasing popularity was coupled with criticism of both professional choices and personal struggles, which damaged his public image and lead to a brief, relatively unsuccessful period in the mid 90s. After five commercially successful albums with PolyGram Greece, Rouvas signed with Minos EMI in 1998. Having been a notable artist in the Balkans for years, Rouvas embarked on multiple projects abroad and represented his country in the Eurovision Song Contest in 2004 and 2009 and co-presented the 2006 contest, while also venturing into film and television. Amongst Rouvas' achievements include multiple recognized awards &ndash;including six Arion Music Awards, 12 MAD Video Music Awards, and a World Music Award&ndash; number-one albums and singles that have all achieved certifications of gold or higher, and sales of an estimated two million records as of 2008, making him one of Greece's best-selling music artists in history. Rouvas' distinct musical and performance style has influenced other artists, while his contributions to music have made him a prominent part of popular culture for nearly two decades.
Sandra  Sandra (singer)  Sandra Ann Lauer (born 18 May 1962 in Saarbrücken), professionally known as Sandra, is a German pop singer who became popular in the 1980s with the help of Michael Cretu whom she had married in 1988. The two met when Sandra was part of a group named Arabesque which saw little success, and he was a musician. She is currently living in Ibiza, Spain with her husband and two children, Nikol and Sebastian. After enjoying a little success as a lead singer of the disco trio Arabesque
Seal  Seal (musician)  Seal Henry Olusegun Olumide Adeola Samuel (born 19 February 1963 in Paddington, London, England), known simply as Seal, is an English soul and R&amp;B singer-songwriter, of Nigerian and Brazilian background. His name Olusegun means God is victorious. A recipient of BRIT, MTV and Grammy Awards, Seal is known for his numerous international hits. He is married to German model Heidi Klum.
Selena  Selena  Selena Quintanilla-Pérez (April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995), known simply as Selena, was a Mexican American singer-songwriter. She was named the top Latin artist of the '90s and Best selling Latin artist of the decade by Billboard, for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits. The singer also had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995, Amor Prohibido and No Me Queda Más. She was called The Queen of Tejano music and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna. Selena released her first album, Selena y Los Dinos, at the age of twelve. She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later. Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking countries. Selena was murdered at the age of 23 by Yolanda Saldívar, the president of her fan club. On April 12, 1995, two weeks after her death, George W. Bush, governor of Texas at the time, declared her birthday Selena Day in Texas. Warner Bros. produced Selena, a film based on her life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997. Selena's life was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena. In June 2006, Selena was commemorated with a museum and a bronze life-sized statue, which are visited by hundreds of fans each week. She has sold over 21 million albums worldwide.
Selena Quintanilla-Pérez  Selena  Selena Quintanilla-Pérez (April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995), known simply as Selena, was a Mexican American singer-songwriter. She was named the top Latin artist of the '90s and Best selling Latin artist of the decade by Billboard, for her fourteen top-ten singles in the Top Latin Songs chart, including seven number-one hits. The singer also had the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995, Amor Prohibido and No Me Queda Más. She was called The Queen of Tejano music and the Mexican equivalent of Madonna. Selena released her first album, Selena y Los Dinos, at the age of twelve. She won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1987 Tejano Music Awards and landed a recording contract with EMI a few years later. Her fame grew throughout the early 1990s, especially in Spanish-speaking countries. Selena was murdered at the age of 23 by Yolanda Saldívar, the president of her fan club. On April 12, 1995, two weeks after her death, George W. Bush, governor of Texas at the time, declared her birthday Selena Day in Texas. Warner Bros. produced Selena, a film based on her life starring Jennifer Lopez, in 1997. Selena's life was also the basis of the musical Selena Forever starring Veronica Vazquez as Selena. In June 2006, Selena was commemorated with a museum and a bronze life-sized statue, which are visited by hundreds of fans each week. She has sold over 21 million albums worldwide.
Shania Twain  Shania Twain  Shania Twain, OC (born Eilleen Regina Edwards; August 28, 1965) is a Canadian country pop singer and songwriter. She rose to fame in the mid 1990s with her album The Woman In Me (1995), and achieved worldwide success with her 1997 album Come On Over, which became the best-selling album of all time by a female musician, and the best selling country album of all time. The album Come on Over has sold over 39 million copies worldwide. Come on Over is also the 9th bestselling album in the U.S. A five-time Grammy Award winner, Twain has also achieved major success as a songwriter, winning 27 BMI Songwriter awards. Twain is one of the first country artists to achieve major crossover success in pop music. She is the only female musician to have three albums certified Diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America and is also the second best-selling artist in Canada, behind fellow Canadian Céline Dion, with three of her studio albums being certified double diamond by the Canadian Recording Industry Association. Twain has sold over 75 million albums worldwide including 48 million in the U.S. She is ranked as the 10th best-selling artist of the Nielsen SoundScan era, with approximately 33.5 million in sales through April 2008. , Twain was ranked the 72nd Artist of the 2000–10 decade by Billboard.
Sharleen Spiteri  Sharleen Spiteri  Sharleen Eugene Spiteri (born 7 November 1967 in Glasgow) is a Scottish recording artist and songwriter, best known as being the lead singer of Scottish rock/blues band Texas. Her debut solo album Melody was released in 2008 and her second solo album The Movie Songbook was released on March 1, 2010.
Sorkun  Sorkun  Sorkun (born Sorkunde Rubio Antotegui) is a Basque singer. She has recorded two solo albums, and formed part of the punk-rock band Kashbad during the 90s. She has also recorded with other groups such as Negu Gorriak and Flitter, and has collaborated with Fermin Muguruza. She began by singing in Kashbad, although the band was already formed when she got involved, they were looking for a female vocalist. After recording their first demo, she was heard by Fermin Muguruza who was amazed by her voice. He suggested to her that they record the covals for the Negu Gorriak song Nire Baitan Daude Biak (Both are inside me) which appeared on the album Ideia Zabaldu (To Expand The Idea) (Esan Ozenki, 1995). Afterwards, the group was persuaded to play in the Festival Hitz Egin along with bertsolaris and bands like Su Ta Gar, Ama Say, Nación Reixa and Negu Gorriak themselves. Later they recorded three records for the label Esan Ozenki (Kashbad, 1996; Distantzia, 1997 y Hesiak, 1999). The group then separated and each of the members went their separate way. In 1999 Fermin Muguruza released his first solo work Brigadistak Sound System. Although Sorkun hadn't worked with him in the recording, she was chosen by Fermin as one of the backing singers for the band when making live performances. She did a world tour with the group through the next two years in different directions becoming familiar with msot of Europe, Los Ángeles and San Francisco, Japan and Quebec. In 2001, the band split up and Sorkun started to thinking about her first solo recording. It was Onna (Metak, 2002). The band on the album is made up of Kanda (the guitarist with Neubat), Atxus (bass player also from Neubat, Iker and Home . The album was recorded in the Garate Studios with Karlos Osinaga and Haritz Harreguy .
Stacey Jackson  Stacey Jackson  Stacey Jackson, is a Canadian singer and mother of four living in London, England, and dubbed the 'Soccermom Rockermom'. She is married to British-American businessman, Henry Jackson, and she is the Executive Producer at 3B1G Records.
Stephen Gately  Stephen Gately  Stephen Patrick David Gately (17 March 1976 – 10 October 2009) was an Irish pop singer–songwriter, actor, dancer, musician and author, who, with Ronan Keating, was one of two lead singers of the pop group Boyzone. All of Boyzone's studio albums hit number one in the United Kingdom, their third and last being their most successful internationally. With Boyzone Gately had a record-breaking sixteen consecutive singles enter the top five of the UK Singles Chart. He performed for millions of fans globally. He released a solo album in 2000, after the group's initial breakup, which charted in the UK top ten and yielded three UK hit singles, including the top three hit New Beginning. Gately went on to appear variously in stage productions and on television programmes as well as contributing songs to various projects. In 2008, he rejoined his colleagues as Boyzone reformed for a series of concerts and recordings. Gately wed Andrew Cowles, first in a commitment ceremony in Las Vegas in 2003 and more formally in a civil partnership ceremony in London in 2006. Gately made his sexuality known in 1999 and came out in a blaze of publicity. He was the first ever boyband member to do so. Upon Boyzone's reformation, Gately featured as part of the first gay couple in a boyband's music video in what was to be his last music video with the band, for the song Better. He was discovered dead at an apartment he owned with Cowles in Majorca, Spain on 10 October 2009. Brian Boyd in The Irish Times said Stephen Gately’s death represents the first time that the boyband genre has had to deal with such a tragic situation. Tim Teeman of The Times (UK) heralded Gately as a hero of gay rights for his response to being smoked out of the closet.
Stevie Wonder  Stevie Wonder  Stevland Hardaway Judkins (born May 13, 1950), name later changed to Stevland Hardaway Morris, known by his stage name Stevie Wonder, is an American singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, record producer and activist. Blind from shortly after birth, Wonder signed with Motown Records' Tamla label at the age of eleven, and continues to perform and record for Motown to this day. Some of Wonder's best known works include singles such as Superstition, Sir Duke, I Wish and I Just Called to Say I Love You. Well known albums also include Talking Book, Innervisions and Songs in the Key of Life. He has recorded more than thirty U.S. top ten hits and received twenty-two Grammy Awards, the most ever awarded to a male solo artist. Wonder is also noted for his work as an activist for political causes, including his 1980 campaign to make Martin Luther King, Jr. 's birthday a holiday in the United States. In 2009, Wonder was named a United Nations Messenger of Peace. In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists to celebrate the US singles chart's fiftieth anniversary, with Wonder at number five.
Sting  Sting (musician)  Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner, CBE (born 2 October 1951), better known by his professional name Sting, is an English musician, singer-songwriter, activist, actor and philanthropist. Prior to starting his solo career, he was the principal songwriter, lead singer and bassist of the rock band The Police. As a solo musician and member of The Police, Sting has received sixteen Grammy Awards for his work, receiving his first Grammy for Best Rock Instrumental Performance in 1981, and receiving an Oscar nomination for best song. He is a member of both the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
Thalía  Thalía  Ariadna Thalía Sodi Miranda (born August 26, 1971), known simply as Thalía, is a Mexican singer, actress, and Latin Grammy Award nominee. Her name is linked to soap operas which made her famous worldwide. Thalía began her music career at the age of 9. Her soap operas have been watched by over 2 billion people in 180 countries. She is known globally as the queen of soap operas for being the biggest TV phenomenon in the decade of the 90s. Thalía has the keys of more than 50 cities in the world, and has toured in five continents, making her one of the most internationally famous Latin singers ever. Thalía has received more than 2000 awards throughout her career for both singing and acting and has sold over 25 million albums worldwide. Her best selling album is Amor a la mexicana, while her first to be released globally is En Extasis. She is also known among english speakers in the United States for her song I Want You
Thomas Anders  Thomas Anders  Thomas Anders (born Bernd Weidung, 1 March 1963, Koblenz, West Germany) is a German singer, composer and record producer. Anders was the lead singer of Germany's popular pop-duo Modern Talking in 1984–1987 and in 1998–2003.
Tina Turner  Tina Turner  Tina Turner (born Anna Mae Bullock; November 26, 1939) is an American singer and actress whose career has spanned more than 50 years. She has won numerous awards and her achievements in the rock music genre have earned her the title The Queen of Rock 'n' Roll. Turner started out her music career with husband Ike Turner as a member of the Ike &amp; Tina Turner Revue. Success followed with a string of hits including River Deep, Mountain High and the 1971 hit Proud Mary. With the publication of her autobiography I, Tina (1986), Turner revealed severe instances of spousal abuse against her by Ike Turner prior to their 1976 split and subsequent 1978 divorce. After virtually disappearing from the music scene for several years following her divorce from Ike Turner, she rebuilt her career, launching a string of hits beginning in 1983 with the single Let's Stay Together and the 1984 release of her fifth solo album Private Dancer. Her musical career led to film roles, beginning with a prominent role as The Acid Queen in the 1975 film Tommy, and an appearance in Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band. She starred opposite Mel Gibson as Aunty Entity in Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome for which she received the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Actress in a Motion Picture, and her version of the film's theme, We Don't Need Another Hero, was a hit single. She appeared in the 1993 film Last Action Hero. One of the world's most popular entertainers, Turner has been called the most successful female rock artist and was named one of the greatest singers of all time by Rolling Stone. Her records have sold nearly 180 million copies worldwide. She has sold more concert tickets than any other solo music performer in history. She is known for her energetic stage presence, powerful vocals, career longevity, and widespread appeal. In 2008, Turner left semi-retirement to embark on her Tina!: 50th Anniversary Tour. Turner's tour became one of the highest selling ticketed shows of 2008-2009. Turner was born a Baptist, but converted to Buddhism and credits the spiritual chants with giving her the strength that she needed to get through the rough times.
Tom Jones  Tom Jones (singer)  Sir Thomas John Woodward, OBE (born 7 June 1940), known by his stage name Tom Jones, is a Welsh singer. Jones is particularly noted for his powerful voice. Since the mid 1960s, Jones has sung nearly every form of popular music – pop, rock, R&amp;B, show tunes, country, dance, techno, soul and gospel. Since 1965, Jones has sold over 100 million records.
Ua  Ua (singer)  UA, is a Japanese singer-songwriter. She debuted under Speedstar Records in 1995 with the single Horizon.
Vanessa Amorosi  Vanessa Amorosi  Vanessa Amorosi is an Australian singer-songwriter and recording artist. To date she has sold over 2 million albums.
Vanessa Paradis  Vanessa Paradis  Vanessa Chantal Paradis (born 22 December 1972) is a French singer, model and actress. She became a child star at 14 with the huge worldwide success of her single Joe le taxi. Since then, she has accomplished a career in music, movies and modelling.
Whitney Houston  Whitney Houston  Whitney Elizabeth Houston (born August 9, 1963) is an American R&amp;B/Pop singer, actress, and former fashion model. A relative of several soul singers, including her mother Cissy Houston, cousins Dionne Warwick and Dee Dee Warwick, and close family friend Aretha Franklin, Houston began singing at her New Jersey church as a member of a junior gospel choir at age eleven. After she began performing alongside her mother at night clubs in the New York City area, she was discovered by Arista Records label head Clive Davis. Houston has released studio albums and movie soundtrack albums throughout her career, all of which have had diamond, multi-platinum, platinum, or gold certification. Houston released her debut album Whitney Houston in 1985, which became the best-selling debut album by a female act at the time of its release. Her second studio album Whitney (1987) became the first album by a female artist to debut at number one on the Billboard 200 albums chart. Houston's crossover appeal on the popular music charts as well as her prominence on MTV enabled several African-American female artists to follow in her success. Following her marriage to singer Bobby Brown, Houston appeared in her first starring role in the feature film The Bodyguard in 1992. The film's original soundtrack won the 1994 Grammy Award for Album of the Year. Its lead single, I Will Always Love You, became the best-selling single by a female artist in music history. The album makes her the only female act ranked in the list of the world's Top 10 best-selling albums; at number four. Houston continued to star in feature films and contributed to soundtracks including Waiting to Exhale (1995) and The Preacher's Wife (1996). After the release of her fourth studio album My Love Is Your Love (1998), she renewed her recording contract with Arista Records in 2001 with the largest recording deal in music history, a historic $100 million. She subsequently released her fifth studio album, Just Whitney, the following year with a Christmas album, One Wish: The Holiday Album, being released in 2003. Amidst widespread media coverage of personal and professional turmoil, Houston ended her 14 year marriage to Brown in 2006. In 2009, Houston released her seventh studio album, I Look To You. Houston is one of the world's best-selling music artists with over 200 million albums and singles worldwide. Although she has released relatively few albums, she is ranked as the fourth best-selling female artist in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America, with 55 million certified albums sold in the US alone. In 2008, Billboard magazine released a list of the Hot 100 All-Time Top Artists
Yoko Ono  Yoko Ono  s Amy Goodman on October 16, 2007, Ono explained, He was in French Indochina which is Vietnam actually... in Saigon. He was in a concentration camp.  By April 1946, the Peers' school was reopened and Ono was enrolled. The school, located near the imperial palace, had not been damaged by the war. She graduated in 1951 and was accepted into the philosophy program of Gakushuin University, the first woman ever to be accepted into that department of the exclusive university. However, after two semesters, she left the school.
小野 洋子  Yoko Ono  s Amy Goodman on October 16, 2007, Ono explained, He was in French Indochina which is Vietnam actually... in Saigon. He was in a concentration camp.  By April 1946, the Peers' school was reopened and Ono was enrolled. The school, located near the imperial palace, had not been damaged by the war. She graduated in 1951 and was accepted into the philosophy program of Gakushuin University, the first woman ever to be accepted into that department of the exclusive university. However, after two semesters, she left the school.
Yoko Ono Lennon  Yoko Ono  s Amy Goodman on October 16, 2007, Ono explained, He was in French Indochina which is Vietnam actually... in Saigon. He was in a concentration camp.  By April 1946, the Peers' school was reopened and Ono was enrolled. The school, located near the imperial palace, had not been damaged by the war. She graduated in 1951 and was accepted into the philosophy program of Gakushuin University, the first woman ever to be accepted into that department of the exclusive university. However, after two semesters, she left the school.
